WERE CONSERVATIVE
HISPANICS, PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN PART OF THE COALITION IN
2004, IN 2008, THEY ARE
STAYING AWAY FROM TRUMP. I SEE
NOTHING TODAY THAT SUGGESTS WE
WILL BE ABLE TO PULL THOSE
PEOPLE BACK IN.
>> THE ONLY THING TO OFFSET
THAT IS HE IS PUTTING A LOT
OF... AND HE HAS MANAGED TO
GET AS MUCH AS HE CAN.
>> THE PROBLEM THOUGH IS THAT
HE HAS ALWAYS PUSHED AWAY THE
COLLEGE-EDUCATED WHITES. HE
KIND OF JUST THE DEMOGRAPHICS.
>> WE HAVE TO GO, THANK YOU SO
MUCH AND JOINED OUR CBS NEWS
SPECIAL COVERAGE HERE OF THE
DEBATE.
>> IT'S A SHOWDOWN IN ST LOUIS
HERE ON CBS.
>> WE ARE GOING TO STOP
RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORISM.
>> HE SAYS IT'S A SECRET PLAN,
THE ONLY SECRET IS THAT HE HAS
NO PLAN.
>> IT'S ABOUT TIME THIS
COUNTRY HAD SOMEBODY RUNNING
IT THAT HAS AN IDEA ABOUT
MONEY.
>> A MAN WHO CAN BE PROVOKED
BY A TWEET SHOULD NOT BE
ANYWHERE NEAR THE NUCLEAR
CODS AT THE TIME!
>> CAMPAIGN 2016, A
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE. FROM
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST
LOUIS, HERE ARE NORAH
O'DONNELL, GAYLE KING AND JOHN
DICKERSON.
>> GOOD EVENING. THIS IS THE
SECOND OF THREE DEBATES
BETWEEN DONALD TRUMP AND
HILLARY CLINTON AND IF ANYONE
THOUGHT THAT DONALD TRUMP WAS
GOING TO BE CONTRITE TONIGHT,
THEY WERE DEAD WRONG.
>> BIG TIME, IT STARTED WITH A
BOMBSHELL. FRIDAY, 4PM EASTERN
TIME TWO DAYS AGO WHEN AN
11-YEAR-OLD VIDEO SURFACED OF
TRUMP MAKING VULGAR REMARKS
ABOUT WOMEN. HE HAS SINCE
APOLOGIZED FOR THAT APOLOGY
LEFT SO MANY PEOPLE
UNSATISFIED, EVEN THE MAKERS
OF TICK TACK. THEY HAD TO
RELEASE A STATEMENT. HE HAS
GONE ON THE OFFENSIVE.
>> AND A POLITICAL STUNT ABOUT
AN HOUR BEFORE THE DEBATE
TRUMP GAVE IT THE WOMEN WHO
CLAIM THEY ARE VICTIMS OF
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT BY FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON. HE HAS
ALSO INVITED THOSE WOMEN THERE
HERE INSIDE THE DEBATE HALL.
>> HILLARY CLINTON IS FACING
QUESTIONS TOO ABOUT PASSAGES
THAT WERE RELEASED THAT SHOWED
HEARD SPEAKING TO WALL STREET
IN THOSE SHE SAYS THAT SHE
FEELS FAR REMOVED FROM AVERAGE
AMERICANS AND TALKS ABOUT THE
NECESSITY TO HAVE BOTH PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE POSITIONS ON
CONTENTIOUS ISSUES.
>> JOHN DICKERSON, NOBODY
THOUGHT THIS NIGHT WAS GOING
TO START LIKE THIS.
>> NO MATTER HOW CRAZY A
CAMPAIGN GET USUALLY ON A
DEBATE NIGHT IT FORCES A SENSE
OF THE CORE AMONG ALL THE
NASTINESS. BUT WE ARE NOW
GOING TO HAVE A BALLOT TO SHOW
AND DEBATE. DONALD TRUMP,
PEOPLE WONDERED WHAT KIND OF
DONALD TRUMP WOULD SHOW UP.
RUDY GIULIANI COMPARED HIM TO
SAINT AUGUSTINE, SAID HE WOULD
HAVE THAT KIND OF CONVERSION.
HE HAS NOT HAD THAT AT ALL.
NOW HE HAS BROUGHT THIS
COARSENESS INTO THE BEGINNING.
THIS IS SUPPOSED TO BE A NIGHT
ABOUT THE VOTERS ON THE
STATES, BUT NOW WITH THIS
LATEST REVELATION I JUST HOPE
THOSE VOTERS AS HE DOES.
>> REMEMBER WHEN YOUR MOM SAID
TAKE THE HIGH ROAD IS THE ROAD
LESS TRAVELED. I'M BEEN
SOMEBODY MISSED THAT MEMO
TODAY. MAJOR GARRETT COVERS
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN, MAJOR
GARRETT, WHAT ARE YOU
EXPECTING PUSH EVERY SENIOR
TRUMP THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE
IS IN THE MIDDLE OF WHAT THEY
REGARD AS THE RISKIEST ACT OF
DEFLECTION AND MODERN
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORY.
>> ESSENTIALLY TELLING THE
COUNTRY THAT BILL CLINTON
SORDID SEXUAL PASSES AS
IMPORTANT, POSSIBLY MORE
IMPORTANT THAN WHAT THE
COUNTRY HEARD IN THAT LEAGUE
VIDEO ON FRIDAY ABOUT THE
DONALD TRUMP HUNT ATTITUDE
TOWARD WOMEN. IT MIGHT RAISE
QUESTION ABOUT TOM'S TO
PERMIT, -- THOMAS TEMPERAMENT.
AND DEEPLY DIVIDE THE PARTY
THAT NOMINATED HIM.
>> NANCY, HOW WILL HILLARY
CLINTON DEAL WITH THIS?
>> SHE IS GOING TO WEIGH IN ON
TRUMPS IT'S RIGHT AT THE START
OF THE DEBATE. DELIBERATELY
CHOSE NOT TO HAVE HER SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT IT OVER THE
WEEKEND TO HEIGHTEN THE IMPACT
TONIGHT WHEN SHE IS STANDING
THERE ON STAGE RIGHT NEXT TO
DO DONALD TRUMP. AFTER THE
LAST DEBATE I ASKED HER WHAT
SHE WOULD DO IF DONALD TRUMP
BROUGHT UP HER HUSBAND PAST
INFIDELITIES IN THIS DEBATE.
SHE SAID "HE CAN RUN HIS
CAMPAIGN HOWEVER HE WANTS" BUT
HER CAMPAIGN INSISTS THIS IS A
STRATEGY THAT WILL BACKFIRE.
>> LET'S GO NOW DOWN TO THE
STAGE FOR THIS DEBATE.
>> GOOD EVENING. I'M ARTHUR
RADEK FROM ABC NEWS.
>> AND I'M ANDERSON COOPER
FROM CNN. WE WANT TO WELCOME
YOU TO WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
IN ST LOUIS FOR THE SECOND
RESIDENTIAL DEBATE BETWEEN
HILLARY CLINTON AND DUMPTRUMP.
TONIGHT DEBATE IS A TOWN HALL
FORMAT WHICH GIVES VOTERS A
DIRECT CHANCE TO ASK
QUESTIONS. MARTHA AND I WILL
ASK FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS BUT
THE DEBATE TONIGHT BLOCKS TO
PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM AND PEOPLE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY WHO HAVE
SUBMITTED QUESTIONS ON MY.
>> THE PEOPLE ON THE STAGE
WERE CHOSEN BY THE GALLUP
ORGANIZATION. THEY ARE OFTEN
THE ST LOUIS AREA AND TOLD
GALLOP THAT THEY... WE SAW
THOSE QUESTIONS FOR THE FIRST
TIME THIS MORNING. ANDERSON
AND I AND FROM OUR TEAM AT ABC
AND CNN ARE THE ONLY ONES WHO
HAVE SEEN THAT. OF CANDIDATES
WILL HAVE TWO MINUTES TO
ANSWER EACH AUDIENCE AND
ONLINE QUESTION. WE HOPE TO
GET TO AS MANY QUESTIONS AS WE
CAN. SO WE'VE ASKED THE
AUDIENCE HERE NOT TO SLOW
THINGS DOWN WITH ANY APPLAUSE.
EXCEPT FOR NOW. LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN, THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINEE FOR PRESIDENT AMONG
DONALD J TRUMP, AND THE
AQUATIC NOMINEE FOR PRESIDENT,
HILLARY CLINTON.
>> APPLAUSE
.
>> HELLO, HELLO, HELLO. HI.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR BEING
HERE, WE'RE GOING TO BEGIN WITH
A QUESTION FROM ONE OF THE
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BEING HERE. WE'RE GOING TO
BEGIN WITH A QUESTION FROM ONE
OF THE MEMBERS IN OUR TOWN
HALL. EACH OF YOU WILL HAVE
TWO MINUTES TO RESPOND TO THIS
QUESTION, SECRETARY CLINTON
YOU WON THE COIN TOSS SO YOU
WILL GO FORCE. OUR FIRST
QUESTION COMES FROM THE TREES.
THE TREES?
>> THANK YOU AND GOOD EVENING.
THE LAST PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
COULD HAVE BEEN RATED AS
MATURE AUDIENCES BIRTH TV
PARENTAL GUIDELINES. VIEWING
THE PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE TESTED
IN HOMEWORK, DO YOU FEEL YOU
ARE MODELING APPROPRIATE AND
POSITIVE BEHAVIOR FOR TODAY'S
YOUTH?
>> THANK YOU, ARE YOU A
TEACHER?
YES KIRALY THINK THAT IS A
VERY GOOD QUESTION BECASE I
HAVE HEARD FROM LOTS OF
TEACHERS AND PARENTS ABOUT
SOME OF THEIR CONCERNS ABOUT
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT ARE
BEING SAID AND DONE IN THIS
CAMPAIGN. I THINK IT IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO MAKE CLEAR
TO OUR CHILDREN THAT OUR
COUNTRY REALLY IS GREAT
BECAUSE WE'RE GOOD. AND WE ARE
GOING TO RESPECT ONE ANOTHER,
LIFT EACH OTHER UP, WE ARE
GOING TO BE LOOKING FOR WAYS
TO CELEBRATE OUR DIVERSITY.
AND WE ARE GOING TO TRY TO
REACH OUT EVERY BOY AND GIRL
AS WELL AS EVERY OTHER. TO
BRING THEM INTO WORKING ON
BEHALF OF OUR COUNTRY. I HAVE
A POSITIVE AND OPTIMISTIC VIEW
ABOUT WHAT WE CAN DO TOGETHER,
THAT IS WHY THE SLOGAN OF MY
CAMPAIGN IS STRONGER TOGETHER.
I THINK IF WE WORK TOGETHER,
IF WE OVERCOME THE
DIVISIVENESS THAT SOMETIMES
SETS AMERICANS AGAINST ONE
ANOTHER, AND INSTEAD WE MAKE
SOME BIG GOALS AND I HAVE SET
FORTH SOME BIG GOALS, GETTING
THE ECONOMY TO WORK FOR
EVERYONE, NOT JUST THOSE AT
THE TOP, MAKING SURE THAT WE
HAVE THE BEST EDUCATION SYSTEM
FROM PRESCHOOL THROUGH COLLEGE
AND MAKING IT AFFORDABLE, AND
SO MUCH ELSE. IF WE SET THOSE
GOALS AND WE GO TOGETHER TO
TRY TO ACHIEVE THEM, THERE IS
NOTHING IN MY OPINION THAT
AMERICA CANNOT DO. SO THAT IS
WHY I HOPE THAT WE WILL COME
TOGETHER IN THIS CAMPAIGN.
OBVIOUSLY I AM HOPING TO EARN
YOUR VOTE. I'M HOPING TO BE
ELECTED IN NOVEMBER AND I CAN
PROMISE YOU I WILL WORK WITH
EVERY AMERICAN. I WANT TO BE
THE PRESIDENT FOR ALL
AMERICANS. REGARDLESS OF YOUR
POLITICAL BELIEFS, WHERE YOU
COME FROM. WHAT YOU LOOK LIKE.
YOUR RELIGION. I WANT US TO
HEAL OUR COUNTRY AND BRING IT
TOGETHER. DOES THAT IS I THINK
HE BEST WAY FOR US TO GET THE
FUTURE THAT OUR CHILDREN AND
OUR GRANDCHILDREN DESERVE.
>> THANK YOU, MR TRUMP U HAVE
TWO BIGGEST.
>> WELL I ACTUALLY AGREE WITH
THAT. I AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
SHE SAID. I BEGAN THIS
CAMPAIGN BECAUSE I WAS SO
TIRED OF SEEING SUCH FOOLISH
THINGS HAPPEN TO OUR COUNTRY.
THIS IS A GREAT COUNTRY. THIS
IS A GREAT LAND. I'VE GOTTEN
TO KNOW THE PEOPLE OF THE TREE
OVER THE LAST YEAR AND A HALF
THAT I HAVE BEEN DOING THIS AS
A POLITICIAN. I CANNOT BELIEVE
I'M SAYING THAT ABOUT MYSELF,
BUT I GUESS I HAVE BEEN A
POLITICIAN. AND MY WHOLE
CONCEPT WAS TO MAKE AMERICA
GREAT AGAIN, WHEN I WATCH THE
DEALS BEING MADE, WHEN I WATCH
WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH SOME
DURABLE THINGS LIKE OBAMACARE
WHERE YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE
AND HEALTH CARE IS GOING UP BY
NUMBERS THAT ARE ASTRONOMICAL,
68%, 59%, 71%, WHEN I LOOK AT
THE IRAN DEAL AND HAD HOW BAD
A DEAL IT IS FOR US, AND
ONE-SIDED TRANSACTION WHERE WE
ARE GETTING BACK $150 BILLION
TO A TERRORIST STATE. REALLY
THE NUMBER ONE TERRORIST
STATE. WE'VE MADE THEM A
STRONG COUNTRY FROM REALLY A
WEAK COUNTRY JUST THREE YEARS
AGO. WHEN I LOOK AT ALL OF THE
THINGS THAT I SEE AND ALL OF
THE POTENTIAL THAT OUR COUNTRY
HAS, WE HAVE SUCH TREMENDOUS
POTENTIAL, WHETHER IT IS IN
BUSINESS AND TRADE, WHERE WE
ARE DOING SO BADLY. LAST YEAR
E HAD IT ALMOST $800 BILLION
TRADE DEFICIT. IN OTHER WORDS
TRADING WITH OTHER COUNTRIES,
WE HAD AN $800 BILLION
DEFICIT. IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE.
INCONCEIVABLE. YOU SAY WHO IS
MAKING THESE DEALS. WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE GREAT TRADE
GUILDS, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A
STRONG BORDER, WE ARE POISED
TO BRING BACK LAW AND ORDER.
JUST TODAY POLICEMAN WERE
SHOT, TWO, KILLED. AND THIS IS
HAPPENING ON A WEEKLY BASIS.
WE HAVE TO BRING BACK RESPECT
TO LAW ENFORCEMENT. AT THE
SAME TIME WE HAD TO TAKE CARE
OF PEOPLE ON ALL SIDES. WE
NEED JUSTICE. BUT I WANT TO DO
THINGS THAT HAVEN'T BEEN DONE,
INCLUDING FIXING AND MAKING
OUR INTER-CITIES BETTER FOR
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN CITIZENS
THAT ARE SO GREAT. AND FOR THE
LATINOS, HISPANICS, AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO DOING THIS. MAKE
AMERICA GREAT AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU MR TRUMP. THE
QUESTION FROM THE TREES WAS
ABOUT ARE YOU BOTH MODELING
POSITIVE AND APPROPRIATE
BEHAVIORS FOR TODAY IS MY
CUBE. WE RECEIVED A LOT OF
QUESTIONS ONLINE ABOUT THE
TAPE THAT WAS RELEASED ON
FRIDAY AS YOU CAN IMAGINE YOU
CALLED WHAT YOU SAID" LOCKER
ROOM BANTER" YOU DESCRIBED
KISSING WOMEN WITHOUT CONSENT
AND GRABBING THEIR GENITALS.
THAT IS SEXUAL ASSAULT. YOU
BRAG THAT YOU HAD SEXUALLY
ASSAULTED WOMEN. DO YOU
UNDERSTAND THAT?
>> NO, I DIDN'T SAY THAT AT
ALL. I DON'T THINK YOU
UNDERSTOOD HIM OF THIS WAS
LOCKER ROOM TALK. I'M NOT
PROUD OF IT. I APOLOGIZE TO MY
FAMILY, I APOLOGIZE TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. CERTAINLY I'M
NOT OUT OF IT. BUT THIS IS
LOCKER ROOM TALK. YOU KNOW
WHAT WE HAVE A WORLD WHERE YOU
HAVE ISIS CHOPPING OFF HEADS,
WHERE YOU HAVE AND FRANKLY
DRIVING PEOPLE IN STEEL CAGES,
WHERE YOU HAVE WARS AND VERBAL
HORRIBLE SITES ALL OVER. WHERE
YOU HAVE SO MANY BAD THINGS
HAPPENING, THIS IS LIKE
MEDIEVAL TIMES, WE HAVEN'T
SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THIS, THE
CARNAGE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
AND THEY LOOK AND THEY SEE.
CAN YOU IMAGINE THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE FRANK LEE DOING SO
WELL AGAINST US WITH ISIS AND
THEY LOOK AT OUR COUNTRY AND
THEY SEE WHAT'S GOING ON, YES,
I'M VERY EMBARRASSED BY IT. I
HATED. IS LOCKER ROOM TALK AND
IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS. I
WILL NOT BE HELL OUT OF FIKES
IS, WE'RE GOING TO DEFEAT
ISIS. ISIS HAD BEEN A NUMBER
IF YEARS AGO IN A VACUUM THAT
WAS LEFT BECAUSE OF BAD
JUDGMENT AND I WILL TELL YOU I
WILL TAKE CARE OF ISIS.
>> SO MR TRUMP.
>> WE SHOULD GET ON SO MUCH
MORE IMPORTANT THINGS AND A
MUCH BIGGER THINGS.
>> JUST FOR THE RECORD THOUGH,
ARE YOU SAYING THAT WHAT YOU
SAID ON THAT WAS 11 YEARS AGO,
THAT YOU DID NOT ACTUALLY KISS
WOMEN WITHOUT CONSENT OR
GROPED WOMEN WITHOUT CONSENT.
>> I HAVE GREAT RESPECT FOR
WOMEN. NOBODY HAS MORE RESPECT
FOR WOMEN THAN I DO.
>> SO FOR THE RECORD YOU ARE
SAYING YOU NEVER DID THAT?
>> I SAID THINGS DIFFERENTLY,
YOU HEAR THE THINGS THEY ARE
SENT. AND I WAS EMBARRASSED BY
IT. BUT I HAVE TREMENDOUS
RESPECT FOR WOMEN. TIMM HAVE
YOU EVER DONE THOSE THINGS
WHICH EVERY WOMEN HAVE RESPECT
FOR ME IN AND I WILL TELL YOU,
NO I HAVE NOT.
>> I'M GOING TO TELL YOU I
WILL MAKE OUR COUNTRY SAFE, WE
ARE GOING TO HAVE BORDERS
WHICH WE DON'T HAVE NOW,
PEOPLE ARE POURING INTO OUR
COUNTRY AND ARE COMING IN FROM
THE MIDDLE EAST AND OTHER
PLACES. WE ARE GOING TO MAKE
AMERICA FIT THE MAC SAFE
AGAIN, WHEREUPON TO MAKE
AMERICA GREAT AGAIN BUT WE ARE
GOING TO MAKE AMERICA REAGAN
AND WE ARE GOING TO MAKE
AMERICA WEALTHY AGAIN BECAUSE
OF YOU DON'T DO THAT IN A
JUST, IT SOUNDS HARSH TO SAY,
BUT WE HAVE TO BUILD UP THE
WEALTH. RIGHT NOW OTHER
NATIONS ARE TAKING OUR JOBS
AND THEY'RE TAKING OUR WEALTH
AND THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT.
>> THANK YOU MR CHUNG.
SECRETARY CLINTON, DO YOU WANT
TO RESPOND?
>> LIKE EVERYONE ELSE I SPENT
A LOT OF TIME PICKING OVER THE
LAST 48 HOURS ABOUT WHAT WE
HEARD AND SAW. WITH PRIOR
REPUBLICAN NOMINEES FOR
PRESIDENT, I DISAGREED WITH
THEM. POLITICS, POLICIES,
PRINCIPLES. BUT I NEVER
QUESTIONED THEIR FITNESS TO
SERVE. DONALD TRUMP IS
DIFFERENT. I SAID STARTED BACK
IN JUNE THAT HE WAS NOT FIT TO
BE PRESIDENT AND
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. AND MANY
REPUBLICANS AND INDEPENDENTS
HAVE SAID THE SAME THING. WHAT
WE ALL SAW AND HEARD ON FRIDAY
WAS DONALD TALKING ABOUT
WOMEN, WHAT HE THINKS ABOUT
WOMEN, WHAT HE DOES TO WOMEN,
AND HE HAS SAID THAT THE VIDEO
DOESN'T REPRESENT WHO HE IS.
BUT I THINK IT'S CLEAR TO
ANYONE WHO HEARD IT THAT IT
REPRESENTS EXACTLY WHO HE IS.
BECAUSE WE HAVE SEEN THIS
THROUGHOUT THE CAMPAIGN. WE
HAVE SEEN HIM INSULT WOMEN. WE
HAVE SEEN HIM RAPE WOMEN ON
THEIR APPEARANCE, RANKING THEM
FROM 1-10. WE HAVE SEEN HIM
EMBARRASSED WOMAN ON TV AND
OWNS WITH HER. WE SAW HIM
AFTER THE FIRST DEBATE SPIN
NEARLY A WEEK DENIGRATING A
FORMER MISS UNIVERSE AND THE
HARSHEST, MOST PERSONAL TERMS.
SO YES, THIS IS WHO DONALD
TRUMP IS. BUT IT'S NOT ONLY
WOMEN AND IS NOT ONLY THIS
VIDEO THAT RAISES QUESTIONS
ABOUT HIS FITNESS TO BE OUR
PRESIDENT. BECAUSE HE HAS ALSO
TARGETED IMMIGRANTS,
AFRICAN-AMERICANS, LATINOS,
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AMONG
THE OLD ABUSE, MUSLIMS, AND SO
MANY OTHERS. -- POWS. SO THE
QUESTION OUR COUNTRY MUST
ANSWER IS THAT THIS IS NOT WHO
WE ARE. THAT'S WHY TO GO BACK
TO YOUR QUESTION, I WANT TO
SEND A MESSAGE, WE ALL SHOULD,
TO EVERY BOY AND GIRL AND
INDEED TO THE ENTIRE WORLD
THAT AMERICA IS ALREADY GREAT,
BUT WE ARE GREAT BECAUSE WE
ARE GOOD AND WE WILL RESTRICT
ONE ANOTHER AND WE WILL WORK
WITH ONE ANOTHER AND WE WILL
CELEBRATE OUR DIVERSITY. THESE
ARE VERY IMPORTANT VALUES TO
ME BECAUSE THIS IS THE AMERICA
THAT I KNOW AND LOVE. AND I
CAN PLACE TO YOU TONIGHT THAT
THIS IS THE AMERICA THAT I
WILL SERVE IF I AM SO
FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO BECOME
YOUR PRESIDENT.
>> AND WE WANT TO GET TO SOME
QUESTIONS FROM ONLINE.
>> DO I RESPONSE TO THAT? I
ASSUME I AM.
>> IS, YOU CAN RESPOND TO
THAT.
>> IT'S JUST WORDS, FOLKS, IT
IS JUST WORDS. THOSE ARE WORDS
I'VE BEEN HEARING FOR MANY
YEARS. I HEARD THEM WHEN THEY
WERE RUNNING FOR THE SENATE IN
NEW YORK WHERE HILLARY WAS
GOING TO BRING BACK JOBS TO
UPSTATE NEW YORK. AND SHE
FAILED. I'VE HEARD THEM WHERE
HILLARY IS CONSTANTLY TALKING
ABOUT THE INNER CITIES OF OUR
COUNTRY, WHICH ARE A DISASTER.
EDUCATION WISE. JOB WISE,
SAFETY WISE. IN EVERY WAY
POSSIBLE. GOING TO HELP THE
AFRICAN-AMERICANS, I'M GOING
TO HELP THE LATINOS,
HISPANICS. I AM GOING TO HELP
THE INNER CITIES. SHE HAS DONE
A TERRIBLE JOB FOR THE
AFRICAN-AMERICANS. SHE WANTS
THEIR VOTE AND SHE DOES
NOTHING AND THEN SHE COMES
BACK FOUR YEARS LATER. WE SAW
THAT FIRST-HAND WHEN SHE WAS
UNITED STATES SENATOR. SHE
CAMPAIGNED WHERE THE PRIME...
>> MR TOM, I WANT TO GET TO
AUDIENCE QUESTIONS AND ALL MY
QUESTIONS.
>> SO SHE IS ALLOWED TO DO
THAT BUT I'M NOT ALLOWED TO
RESPOND?
>> YOU'RE GOING TO GET TO
RESPOND RIGHT NOW.
>> THAT SOUNDS FAIR.
>> THIS DATE IS GENERATING
INTENSE INTEREST. IN JUST 48
HOURS IS BECOME THE MOST
SINGLE TALKED ABOUT STORY OF
THE ENTIRE 2016 ELECTION ON
FACEBOOK WITH MILLIONS AND
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE DISCUSSING
IT ON THE SOCIAL NETWORK. AS
WE SAID A MOMENT AGO, WE DO
WANT TO BRING YOU QUESTIONS
FROM VOTERS AROUND THE
COUNTRY, THE OF SOCIAL MEDIA
AND OUR FIRST STAYS ON THIS
TOPIC, JEFF FROM OHIO, ASKS ON
FACEBOOK "TRUMP SAYS THE
CAMPAIGN HAS CHANGED HIM. WHEN
DID THAT HAPPEN WITH MAC" MR
TRUMP, LET ME ADD TO THAT WHEN
YOU WALKED OFF THAT BUS AT AGE
59, WERE YOU A DIFFERENT MAN
OR DID THAT BEHAVIOR CONTINUE
UNTIL JUST RECENTLY? AND YOU
HAVE TWO MINUTES FOR THIS?
>> I'VE TOLD YOU THAT WAS
LOCKER ROOM TALK. I'M NOT
PROUD OF IT. I AM A PERSON WHO
HAS GREAT RESPECT FOR PEOPLE,
FOR MY FAMILY, FOR THE PEOPLE
OF THIS COUNTRY. AND CERTAINLY
I'M NOT PROUD OF IT. BUT THAT
WAS SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED.
IF YOU LOOK AT BILL CLINTON,
FAR WORSE. MINE ARE WORDS AND
HIS WAS ACTION. HIS WAS WHAT
HE HAS TO THERE HAS NEVER BEEN
ANYBODY IN THE HISTORY OF
POLITICS IN THIS NATION THAT
HAS BEEN SO ABUSIVE TO WOMEN.
SO YOU CAN SAY ANYWAY YOU WANT
TO SAY IT, BUT DO CLINTON WAS
ABUSIVE TO WOMEN. HILLARY
CLINTON ATTACKED THOSE SAME
WOMEN, AND ATTACKED
AMBITIOUSLY, FOUR OF THEM HERE
TONIGHT. ONE OF THE WOMEN, WHO
IS A WONDERFUL WOMAN, AT 12
YEARS OLD, WAS RAPED, AT 12.
HER CLIENT, SHE REPRESENTED,
GOT HIM OFF AND SHE IS SEEN
LAUGHING ONTO SEPARATE
OCCASIONS, LAUGHING AT THE
GIRL WHO WAS RAPED. KATHY
SHELTON, THAT YOUNG WOMAN IS
HERE WITH US TONIGHT. SO DON'T
TELL ME ABOUT WORDS. I AM
ABSOLUTELY, I APOLOGIZE FOR
THOSE WORDS, BUT IT IS THINGS
THAT PEOPLE SAY, BUT WHAT
PRESIDENT CLINTON DID, HE WAS
IMPEACHED, HE LOST HIS LICENSE
TO PRACTICE LAW. HE HAD TO PAY
AN $850,000 FINE TO ONE OF THE
WOMEN. PAULA JONES, WHO IS
ALSO HERE TONIGHT. AND I WILL
DO YOU THAT WHEN HILLARY
BRINGS UP THE POINT LIKE THAT.
AND SHE TALKS ABOUT WORDS THAT
I SAID 11 YEARS AGO. I THINK
IT IS DISGRACEFUL AND I THINK
SHE SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF
HERSELF IF YOU WANT TO KNOW
THE TRUTH.
>> CAN WE PLEASE HOLD THE
APPLAUSE? SECRETARY CLINTON,
YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
>> WELL FIRST LET ME START BY
SAYING THAT SO MUCH OF WHAT HE
HAS JUST SAID IS NOT RIGHT,
BUT HE GETS TO RUN HIS
CAMPAIGN ANYWAY HE CHOOSES. HE
GETS TO DECIDE WHAT HE WANTS
TO TALK ABOUT. INSTEAD OF
ANSWERING PEOPLES QUESTIONS,
TALKING ABOUT OUR AGENDA,
LAYING OUT THE PLANS THAT WE
HAVE THAT WE THINK CAN MAKE A
BETTER LIFE AND A BETTER
COUNTRY, THAT IS HIS CHOICE.
WHEN I HEAR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT, I AM REMINDED OF WHAT MY
FRIEND, MICHELLE OBAMA,
ADVISED US ALL. "WHEN THEY GO
LOW, YOU GO RIGHT OLD WORLD.
-- "WHEN THEY GO LOW, YOU GO
HI"HI". IF THIS WERE JUST ABOUT
ONE VIDEO, MAYBE WHAT HE IS
SAYING TONIGHT WOULD BE
UNDERSTANDABLE. BUT EVERYONE
CAN DRAW THEIR OWN CONCLUSIONS
AT THIS POINT ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT THE MAN IN THE VIDEO OR
THE MAN ON THE STAGE RESPECTS
WOMEN. BUT HE NEVER APOLOGIZES
FOR ANYTHING TO ANYONE. HE
NEVER APOLOGIZED TO MR & MRS
SMITH AND -- TO MR AND MRS.
KHAN, THE GOLD STAR FAMILY
WHOSE SON TAPPING CON --
CAPTAIN KHAN DIED IN THE LINE
OF DUTY AND DONALD TRUMP
ATTACKED THEM FOR ABOUT THEIR
RELIGION. HE NEVER APOLOGIZED
TO THE DISTINGUISHED FEDERAL
JUDGE, WHO WAS BORN IN
INDIANA, BUT DONALD SAID HE
COULD BE TRUSTED TO BE A JUDGE
BECAUSE HIS PARENTS WERE
"MEXICAN". HE NEVER APOLOGIZED
TO THE REPORTER THAT HE
MIMICKED AND MOPPED ON
NATIONAL TELEVISION WHEN OUR
CHILDREN ARE WATCHING. AND HE
NEVER APOLOGIZED FOR THE
RACIST BY THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
WAS NOT BORN IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. HE OWES THE
PRESIDENT AN APOLOGY. HE OWES
OUR COUNTRY AN APOLOGY. AND HE
NEEDS TO TAKE THIS POSSIBILITY
FOR HIS ACTIONS AND HIS WORDS.
>> YOU ALL THE PRESIDENT AN
APOLOGY BECAUSE AS YOU KNOW
VERY WELL, GORE CAMPAIGN,
SIDNEY BLUMENTHAL, HE IS
ANOTHER REAL WINNER THAT YOU
HAVE AND HE IS THE ONE THAT
GOT THIS STARTED ALONG WITH
YOUR CAMPAIGN MANAGER FOR.
THEY WERE ON TELEVISION JUST
TWO WEEKS AGO SAYING THAT AND
YOU OWE HIM AN APOLOGY. YOU'RE
THE ONE THAT SENT THE PICTURES
AROUND, YOUR CAMPAIGN, WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA IN A CERTAIN
GARB. THAT WAS LONG BEFORE I
WAS EVER INVOLVED SO YOU OWE
HIM APOLOGY. NUMBER TWO,
MICHELLE OBAMA. I'VE GOTTEN TO
SEE THE COMMERCIALS THAT THEY
DID ON YOU. AND I'VE GOTTEN TO
SEE SOME OF THE MOST VICIOUS
COMMERCIALS I HAVE EVER SEEN.
OF MICHELLE OBAMA TALKING
ABOUT YOU, HILLARY. SO YOU
TALK ABOUT FRIEND, GO BACK AND
TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE
COMMERCIALS. A RACE WHERE YOU
LOST. FAIR AND SQUARE. MIKE
THE BERNIE SANDERS RACE, WHERE
YOU WANT, BUT NOT FAIR AND
SQUARE IN MY OPINION. AND ALL
YOU HAVE TO DO IS TAKE A LOOK
AT WIKILEAKS IN THE WHAT THEY
SAID ABOUT BERNIE SANDERS AND
SEE WHAT DEBORAH WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ HAD IN MIND BECAUSE
BERNIE SANDERS, BETWEEN
SUPERDELEGATES AND HER, HE
NEVER HAD A CHANCE AND I WAS
SO SURPRISED TO SEE HIM SIGN
ON WITH THE DEVIL. BUT WHEN
YOU TALK ABOUT AN APOLOGY, I
THINK THE ONE THAT YOU SHOULD
REALLY BE APOLOGIZING FOR AND
THE THING YOU SHOULD BE
APOLOGIZING FOR, RD 33,00
E-MAILS THAT YOU DELETE IT AND
THAT YOU ACID WASHED AND THEN
THE TWO BOXES OF E-MAILS AND
OTHER THINGS LAST WEEK. THAT
WERE TAKEN FROM AN OFFICE AND
ARE NOW MISSING. AND I TELL
YOU WHAT, I DIDN'T THINK I WAS
A BIT, BUT I AM GOING TO SAY
IT AND I HATE TO SAY IT. BUT
IF I WENT, I AM GOING TO
INSTRUCT MY ATTORNEY GENERAL
TO GET A SPECIAL PROSECUTOR TO
LOOK INTO YOUR SITUATION
BECAUSE THERE HAVE NEVER BEEN
SO MANY LIES, SO MUCH
DECEPTION, THERE HAS NEVER
BEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT AND
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A SPECIAL
PROSECUTOR. WHEN I SPEAK I GO
OUT AND SPEAK. THE PEOPLE OF
THIS COUNTRY ARE FURIOUS. IN
MY OPINION, THE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN LONG-TERM WORKERS AT
THE FBI ARE FURIOUS. THERE HAS
NEVER BEEN ANYTHING LIKE THIS
WHERE E-MAILS, AND YOU GET A
SUBPOENA, YOU GET A SUBPOENA
AND AFTER GETTING THE SUBPOENA
YOU DELETE 32,000 E-MAILS. AND
THEN YOU ACID WASH THEM OR
BOOST THEM AS YOU WOULD SAY.
VERY EXPENSIVE PROCESS. SO WE
ARE GOING TO GET A SPECIAL
PROSECUTOR AND WE ARE GOING TO
LOOK INTO IT BECAUSE YOU KNOW
WHAT, PEOPLE HAVE BEEN, THEIR
LIVES HAVE BEEN DESTROYED FOR
DOING ONE FIFTH OF WHAT YOU
HAVE DONE AND IT'S A DISGRACE
AND HONESTLY, YOU OUGHT TO BE
ASHAMED OF YOURSELVES.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, I WANT
TO FOLLOW UP ON THAT.
>> EVERYTHING HE JUST SAID IS
ABSOLUTELY FALSE, BUT I'M NOT
SURPRISED. IN THE FIRST
DEBATE...
>> THE AUDIENCE NEEDS TO CALM
DOWN.
>> I WAS TOLD THAT IT WOULD BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO BE FACT CHECKING
DONALD ALL THE TIME. I'D NEVER
GET TO TALK ABOUT ANYTHING I'M
GOING TO DO AND HOW WE WILL
MAKE LIFE BETTER FOR PEOPLE
ONCE AGAIN GO TO HILLARY
CLINTON .COM, WE HAVE
LITERALLY CHUMP, YOU CAN FACT
CHECK HIM IN REAL TIME --
TRUMP. LAST TIME AT THE FIRST
DEBATE WE HAD MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE FACT CHECKING SO I
EXPECT WE'LL HAVE MILLIONS
MORE FACT CHECKING BECAUSE IT
IS GOOD THAT SOMEONE WITH THE
TEMPERAMENT OF DONALD TRUMP IS
NOT IN CHARGE OF THE LAW AND
OUR COUNTRY.
>> BECAUSE YOU WOULD BE IN
JAIL.
>> CHEERING
>> WE WANT TO REMIND THE
AUDIENCE TO PLEASE NOT TALK
OUT LOUD, PLEASE DO NOT
APPLAUD, YOU'RE JUST WASTING
TIME.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, I DO
WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON E-MAILS.
YOU SAID YOU ARE HANDLING OF
YOUR E-MAILS WAS A MISTAKE.
THE HE DISAGREED WITH
DIRECTOR, FBI DIRECTOR,
CALLING YOUR HANDLING OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
"EXTREMELY CARELESS. " THE FBI
SAID THERE WERE 110 CLASSIFIED
E-MAILS THAT WERE EXCHANGED,
EIGHT OF WHICH WERE TOP
SECRET. AND THAT IT WAS
POSSIBLE HOSTILE ACTORS DID
GAN ACCESS TO THOSE E-MAILS.
YOU DON'T CALL THAT EXTREMELY
CARELESS?
>> MARTHA, FIRST LET ME SAY,
AND I SAID IT BEFORE BUT I
WILL REPEAT IT BECAUSE I WANT
EVERYONE TO HEAR IT, THAT WAS
A MISTAKE. AND I TAKE THIS
POSSIBILITY FOR USING A
PERSONAL E-MAIL ACCOUNT.
OBVIOUSLY IF I WERE TO DO IT
OVER AGAIN, I WOULD NOT. I'M
NOT MAKING ANY EXCUSES. IT WAS
A MISTAKE. I'M VERY SORRY
ABOUT THAT, BUT I THINK IT'S
ALSO IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT
WHERE THERE ARE SOME
MISLEADING ACCUSATIONS FROM
CRITICS AND OTHERS. AFTER A
YEAR-LONG INVESTIGATION, THERE
IS NO EVIDENCE THAT ANYONE
HACKED THE SERVER I WAS USING.
AND THERE IS NO EVIDENCE THAT
ANYONE CAN WANT TO AT ALL,
ANYONE WHO SAYS OTHERWISE HAS
NO BASIS, THAT ANY CLASSIFIED
MATERIAL ENDED UP IN THE WRONG
HANDS. I TAKE CLASSIFIED
MATERIALS VERY SERIOUSLY. YOU
ALWAYS HAVE WINDOWS ON THE
SENATE ARMED SERVICES
COMMITTEE I WAS PRIVY TO A LOT
OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL.
OBVIOUSLY AS SECRETARY OF
STATE, I HAD SOME OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT SECRETS THAT WE
POSSESS, SUCH AS GOING AFTER
BIN LADEN. SO I AM VERY
COMMITTED TO TAKING CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION SERIOUSLY AND AS I
SAID, THERE IS NO EVIDENCE
THAT ANY CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION ENDED UP IN THE
WRONG HANDS.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON.
>> AND YET SHE DIDN'T KNOW THE
WORD, THE LETTERS C ON A
DOCUMENT. WRITE? SHE DIDN'T
EVEN KNOW WHAT THAT LETTERMAN.
YOU KNOW, IT'S AMAZING I'M
WATCHING HILLARY GO OVER
FACTS. AND SHE'S GOING AFTER
FACT, AFTER FACT THAT, AND
SHE'S LYING AGAIN BECAUSE SHE
SAID WHAT SHE DID WITH THE
E-MAILS WAS FINE. DO YOU THINK
IT WAS FINE TO DELETE 33,000
E-MAILS WAS LIKE I DON'T THINK
SO. SHE SAID THE 32,000
E-MAILS HAD TO DO WITH HER
DAUGHTER'S WEDDING, NUMBER ONE
AND A YOGA CLASS. MAYBE WE
WILL GET THREE OR FOUR OR
FIVE, 33,000 E-MAILS DELETED.
AND NOW SHE IS SAYING THERE
WASN'T ANYTHING WRONG. PART
THERE WAS AFTER GETTING THE
SUBPOENA. THAT WASN'T BEFORE,
THAT WAS AFTER. SHE GOT IT
FROM THE UNITED STATES
CONFERENCE DONE AT CONGRESS
AND I AM SO DISAPPOINTED AND
CONGRESSMAN, INCLUDING
REPUBLICANS, FOR ALLOWING THIS
TO HAPPEN. OUR JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WHERE HER HUSBAND
GOES ON THE DECK OF AN
AIRPLANE FOR 39 MINUTES, COST
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DAYS
BEFORE RULINGS HAVE GOT TO BE
MADE IN HER CASE, BUT FOR YOU
TO SAY THAT THERE WAS NOTHING
WRONG WITH YOU TWO EATING
39,000 E-MAILS, AGAIN, YOU
SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF YOURSELF.
WHAT YOU DID, AND AS IS AFTER
GETTING A SUBPOENA FROM THE
UNITED STATES CONGRESS.
>> WE'VE GOT TO MOVE ON.
>> WE WANT TO GIVE THE
AUDIENCE A CHANCE HERE.
>> YOU SHOULD BE PUT IN JAIL,
LET ALONE AFTER GETTING A
SUBPOENA FROM THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS.
>> WE HAVE TO MOVE ON TO AN
AUDIENCE QUESTION.
>> LOOK, IT'S JUST NOT TRUE
AND SO PLEASE DON'T... SEVEN
MAGGIE DIDN'T DELETE THEM.
>> ALLOWED HER TO HER
RESPONSE.
>> WE TURNED OVER 35,000.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER
50,000?
>> PLEASE ALLOW HER TO
RESPOND, SHE DIDN'T TALK WHILE
YOU TALK.
>> YES, THAT'S TRUE, I DIDN'T.
>> BECAUSE YOU HAVE NOTHING TO
SAY.
>> IN THE FIRST DEBATE IN I'M
GOING TO TRY NOT TO IN THIS
DEBATE BECAUSE I'D LIKE TO GET
TO THE QUESIONS THAT THE
PEOPLE HAVE BROUGHT HERE
TONIGHT TO TALK TO US ABOUT.
>> AND GET OFF THIS QUESTION.
>> OK, DONALD, I KNOW YOU ARE
INTO BIG DIVERSION TONIGHT.
ANYTHING TO AVOID TALKING
ABOUT YOUR CAMPAIGN AND THE
WAY IT IS LOADING AND WEIGHT
REPUBLICANS ARE LEAVING YOU.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE ISSUES
THAT PEOPLE CARE ABOUT
TONIGHT. LET'S GET TO THAT
QUESTION.
>> WE HAVE A QUESTION HERE
FROM KENT, A QUESTION ABOUT
HEALTH CARE.
>> I'D LIKE TO KNOW, ANDERSON,
WHY AREN'T YOU BRINGING UP THE
E-MAILS? I'D LIKE TO KNOW.
>> WE BROUGHT UP THE E-MAILS.
>> KNOW IT HASN'T AND IT
HASN'T BEEN FINISHED AT ALL.
>> KEN HAS A QUESTION.
>> BY STU, 113.
>> THANK YOU. AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, KNOWN AS OBAMACARE, IT IS
NOT AFFORDABLE. PREMIUMS HAVE
GONE UP, DEDUCTIBLES HAVE GONE
UP. CO-PAYS HAVE GONE ON.
PRESCRIPTIONS HAVE GONE UP.
AND THE COVERAGE HAS GONE
DOWN. WHAT WILL YOU DO TO
BRING THE COST DOWN AND MAKE
COVERAGE BETTER?
>> THAT FIRST ONE GOES TO
SECRETARY CLINTON BECAUSE SHE
STARTED OUT THE LAST ONE TO
THE AUDIENCE.
>> HE WAS TO START, HE CAN
START.
>> WHAT HEAD, DONALD.
>> I'M A GENTLEMAN, HILLARY,
GO AHEAD.
>> LAUGHTER
>> SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> I THINK DONALD WAS ABOUT TO
SAY HE IS GOING TO SOLVE IT BY
REPEALING IT AND GETTING RID
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT. I
AM GOING TO FIX IT BECAUSE I
AGREE WITH YOU. PREMIUMS HAVE
GOTTEN TOO HIGH, CO-PAYS
DEDUCTIBLES, PRESCRIPTION DRUG
COSTS, AND I HAVE LAID OUT A
SERIES OF ACTIONS THAT WE CAN
TAKE TO TRY TO GET THOSE COSTS
DOWN. BUT HERE IS WHAT I DON'T
WHAT PEOPLE TO FORGET WHAT WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT BRINGING IN
THE COST WHICH HAS TO BE THE
HIGHEST PRIORITY OF THE NEXT
PRESIDENT. WHEN THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT PASSED IT WASN'T JUST
THAT 20 MILLION PEOPLE.
INSURANCE WHO DIDN'T HAVE IT
BEFORE, BUT THAT IN AND OF
ITSELF WAS A GOOD THING. I
NEED THESE PEOPLE ALL THE TIME
AND THEY TELL ME WHAT A
DIFFERENCE HAVING THE
INSURANCE MEANT TO THEM AND
THEIR FAMILIES.
WHO GET HEALTH INSURANCE
THROUGH OUR EMPLOYERS GOT BIG
BENEFITS. NUMBER ONE INSURANCE
COMPANIES CANNOT THAN YOU
COVERAGE BECAUSE OF A
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION. NUMBER
TWO, NO LIFETIME LIMITS. WHICH
IS A BIG DEAL IF YOU HAVE
SERIOUS HEALTH PROBLEMS.
NUMBER THREE, WOMEN CANNOT BE
CHARGED MORE THAN FOR OUR
HEALTH INSURANCE WHICH IS THE
WAY IT USED TO BE BEFORE THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT. NUMBER
FOUR, IF YOU'RE UNDER 26 AND
HAVE A POLICY, YOU CAN BE ON
THAT POLICY INTO THE AGE OF
26. SOMETHING THAT CANNOT
HAPPEN HAPPEN BEFORE. I WANT
VERY MUCH TO SAVE WHAT WORKS
AND IT IS GOOD ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT. BUT WE
HAVE TO GET COST DOWN AND
PROVIDE SOME ADDITIONAL HELP
TO SMALL BUSINESSES SO THEY
CAN AFFORD TO PROVIDE HEALTH
INSURANCE. IF WE WERE PELLETED
AS DONNELL HAS FOR THE POLLS.
AND START OVER AGAIN, ALL OF
THOSE BENEFITS I JUST
MENTIONED ARE LOST TO
EVERYBODY. NOT JUST PEOPLE WHO
GET THE HEALTH INSURANCE ON
THE EXCHANGE AND THEN WE WOULD
HAVE TO START ALL OVER AGAIN.
RIGHT NOW WE ARE AT 90% HEALTH
INSURANCE COVERAGE. THE
HIGHEST WE HAVE EVER BEEN IN I
WANT TO GET TO 100% THE GET
COST DOWN AND KEEP QUALITY OF.
>> YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES MR
TRUMP.
>> IT IS SUCH GREAT QUESTION
AND THE QUESTION I GET ALMOST
MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
OUTSIDE OF THE FENCE.
OBAMACARE IS A DISASTER. YOU
KNOW, WE ALL KNOW IT. IT IS
GOING UP AT NUMBERS THAT
NOBODY HAS EVER SEEN
WORLDWIDE. NOBODY HAS EVER
SEEN NUMBERS LIKE THAT FOR
HEALTH CARE. IT IS ONLY
GETTING WORSE, IT IN 2710 IN
BY ITSELF. THEIR METHOD OF
FIXING IT IS TO ASK CONGRESS
FOR MORE MONEY. WE HAVE ALMOST
$20 TRILLION IN DEBT RIGHT
NOW. OBAMACARE WILL NEVER
WORK. IT IS VERY BAD, VERY BAD
HEALTH INSURANCE. FAR TOO
EXPENSIVE, NOT ONLY EXPENSIVE
FOR THE PERSON THAT HAS IT,
I'M BELIEVABLY EXPRESS UP FOR
OUR COUNTRY. ONE OF THE
BIGGEST LINE ITEMS BARRIERS
SHORTLY. WE HAVE TO REPEAL IT,
AND REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING
ABSOLUTELY MUCH LESS EXPENSIVE
THAN SOMETHING THAT WORKS.
WHEN YOUR PLAN CAN ACTUALLY BE
TAILORED. WE HAVE TO GET RID
OF THE LINES AROUND THE STATE,
ARTIFICIAL LINES, WHERE WE
STOP INSURANCE COMPANIES WILL
COME IN AND COMPETING BECAUSE
THEY WANT PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
WHOEVER WAS WORKING ON IT,
THEY WANT TO LEAVE THOSE LINES
BECAUSE THAT GIVES THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES BUT A
MONOPOLY. WE WANT COMPETITION.
YOU WILL HAVE THE FINEST
HEALTH CARE PLAN THAT IS. SHE
WANTS TO GO TO A SINGLE-PAYER
PLAN WHICH WILL BE A DISASTER.
SOMEWHAT SIMILAR TO CANADA. IF
YOU NOTICE, WHEN CANADIANS
NEED A BIG OPERATION OR
SOMETHING HAPPENS THEY COME TO
THE UNITED STATES IN MANY
CASES. BECAUSE THEIR SYSTEM IS
SO SLOW, IT IS CATASTROPHIC IN
CERTAIN WAYS. BUT SHE WANTS TO
GO TO SINGLE-PAYER WHICH MEANS
THE GOVERNMENT BASICALLY RULES
EVERYTHING. HILLARY CLINTON
HAS BEEN AFTER THIS FOR YEARS.
OBAMACARE WAS THE FIRST STEP.
OBAMACARE IS A TOTAL DISASTER.
NOT ONLY HARD TO RESTORE GOD
BY NUMBERS THAT NOBODY HAS
EVER BELIEVED, BUT YOUR
DEDUCTIBLES ARE GOING UP. SO
UNLESS YOU GET HIT BY A TRUCK,
YOU'LL NEVER BE ABLE TO USE
IT. IT IS A DISASTROUS PLANET
HAS TO BE REPEALED AND
REPLACED.
>> CLINTON, LET ME FOLLOW UP.
YOUR HUSBAND CALLED OBAMACARE
THE CRAZIEST THING IN THE
WORLD SANK OWNERS AS PREMIUM
DOUBLES, COVERED HIS CUT IN
HALF, WAS HE MISTAKEN OR HIS
MISTAKE TELLING THE TRUTH?
>> HE CLARIFIED WHAT HE MEANT
AND IT IS VERY CLEAR. WE ARE
IN A SITUATION IN OUR
COUNTRIES WHERE IF WE WANT TO
START ALL OVER AGAIN, WE MIGHT
COME WITH A DIFFERENT SYSTEM.
BUT WE HAVEN'T EMPLOYER-BASED
SYSTEM, THAT IS WHERE THE VAST
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE GET THEIR
HEALTH CARE. THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT WAS MEANT TO TRY AND
FILL THE GAP BETWEEN PEOPLE
WHO WERE TOO POOR, AND CANNOT
PUT TOGETHER ANY RESOURCES TO
AFFORD HEALTH CARE, NAMELY
PEOPLE ON MEDICAID. OBVIOUSLY
MEDICARE, WHICH IS A
SINGLE-PAYER SYSTEM WHICH
TAKES CARE OF OUR ELDERLY AND
OTHER GREAT JOB DOING GOOD BY
THE WAY. AND ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO WERE EMPLOYED BUT PEOPLE
WHO WERE WORKING BUT DO NOT
HAVE THE MONEY TO AFFORD
INSURANCE. AND DIDN'T HAVE
ANYBODY TO HELP HIM. THAT WAS
THE SLOT THE OBAMACARE
APPROACH WAS TO TAKE. LIKE I
SAID, 20 MILLION PEOPLE NOW
HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE. IF WE
JUST DRIVEN UP AND THROW IT
AWAY, WE DONNELL IS NOT
TELLING YOU IS WE JUST TURN IT
BACK TO THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES THE WAY IT USED TO
BE. THAT MEANS THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES GET TO DO PRETTY
MUCH WHATEVER THEY WANT
INCLUDING SAYING, I AM SORRY
YOU HAVE DIABETES, YOU HAD
CANCER, THE CHILD HAS ASTHMA,
YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HAVE
INSURANCE BECAUSE YOU CAN
AFFORD IT. LET'S FIX WHAT IS
BROKEN ABOUT IT BUT LET'S NOT
THROW IT AWAY. AND GIVE IT ALL
BACK TO THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
>> JUST ONE THING. HILLARY,
EVERYTHING IS BROKEN ABOUT IT.
NUMBER TWO, BERNIE SANDERS
SAID HILLARY CLINTON HAS VERY
BAD JUDGMENT. THIS IS A
PERFECT EXAMPLE OF BED. TRYING
TO SAVE OBAMACARE WHICH IS...
>> YOU SAID YOU WANTED TO END
OBAMACARE AND MAKE COVERAGE
ACCESSIBLE FOR PEOPLE WITH
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS. OUT
DO YOU FORCE COMPANIES TO DO
THAT IF YOU ARE NO LONGER
MANDATING... WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN?
>> YOU WILL HAVE PLANS THAT
ARE SO GOOD BECAUSE WE WILL
HAVE SO MUCH COMPETITION IN
THE INDUSTRY ONCE WE BREAK OUT
THE LINES AND ALLOW THE
COMPETITION TO COME,...
>> PRESIDENT OBAMA, BY KEEPING
THOSE LINES AROUND EACH STATE,
WAS ALMOST GONE UNTIL JUST
BURIED TOWARD THE END OF THE
PASSAGE OF OBAMACARE, WHICH BY
THE WAY WITH A FRAUD. JONATHAN
GRUBER, THE ARCHITECT OF
OBAMACARE WE SAID HE SAID IT
WAS A GREAT LIVE. PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID... THE WHOLE THING
WITH A FRAUD. IT DOESN'T WORK.
WHEN WE GET RID OF THOSE LINES
YOU HAVE COMPETITION AND WE
WILL BE ABLE TO KEEP
PRE-EXISTING AND HELP PEOPLE
THAT CANNOT GET OR HAVE MONEY.
WE WILL HAVE PEOPLE PROTECTED.
REPUBLICANS SO THIS WAY,
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, AND
STRONGLY THIS WAY WE WILL
BLOCK GRANT TO THE STATES.
BLOCK GRANTED TO MEDICAID INTO
THE STATES SO WILL BE ABLE TO
TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE WITHOUT
THE NECESSARY FUNDS TO TAKE
CARE OF HIMSELF.
>> WE NOW GO TO ANOTHER
QUESTION FOR BOTH CANDIDATES.
>> THERE ARE 3.3 MILLION
MUSLIMS IN THE UNITED STATES
AND I AM ONE OF THEM. THE
COMMISSION WORKING WITH MUSLIM
NATIONS BUT WHAT ISLAMOPHOBIA
ON THE RISE, HAVEN'T YOU HELP
PEOPLE LIKE ME DEAL WITH THE
CONSEQUENCES OF BEING LABELED
AS A THREAT TO THE COUNTRY
AFTER THE ELECTION IS OVER?
>> MR TRUMP, YOU ARE FOR.
>> YOU ARE RIGHT ABOUT
ISLAMOPHOBIA. THAT IS A SHAME.
ONE THING WE HAVE TO DO, WE
HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT BECAUSE
THERE IS A PROBLEM. LIKE IT OR
NOT, WE CAN BE VERY
POLITICALLY CORRECT, BUT
WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT
THERE IS A PROBLEM. AND WE
HAVE TO BE SURE THAT MUSLIMS
COME IN AND REPORT WHEN THEY
SEE SOMETHING GOING ON. WHEN
THEY SEE HATRED GOING ON THEY
HAVE TO REPORT IT. AN EXAMPLE
IN SAN BERNARDINO. MANY PEOPLE
SAW THE BOMBS ALL OVER THE
APARTMENT OF THE TWO PEOPLE
THEY KILLED 14 AND WOUNDED
OTHERS. THEY WILL NEVER BE THE
SAME. MUSLIMS HAVE TO REPORT
THE PROBLEMS WHEN THEY SEE
THEM. THERE IS ALWAYS A REASON
FOR EVERYTHING. IF THEY DON'T
DO THAT, IT IS A VERY
DIFFICULT SITUATION FOR OUR
COUNTRY. BECAUSE YOU LOOK AT
ORLANDO, AND SAN BERNARDINO
AND THE WORLD TRADE CENTER, GO
OUTSIDE AND LOOK AT PARIS,
LOOK OF THAT HORRIBLE... THESE
ARE HORRIBLE PRODUCT LIST
TURAN. HE WON'T EVEN MENTION
THE WORD. NOR WILL PRESIDENT
OBAMA. HE WILL USE THE TERM
RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORISTS.
THAT SHE WILL NOT VIEW. TO
SOLVE A PROBLEM YOU HAVE TO
STATE THAT THE PROBLEM IS WE
SAY THE NAME. SHE WILL NOT SAY
THE NAME AND PRESIDENT OBAMA
WILL NOT SAY THE MAN. BUT THE
NAME IS THERE. IT IS RADICAL
ISLAMIC TERROR. AND BEFORE YOU
SOLVE IT, YOU HAVE TO SAY THE
NAME.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON.
>> THANK YOU FOR ASKING THE
QUESTION AND I HAVE HEARD THIS
QUESTION FROM A LOT OF MUSLIM
AMERICANS ACROSS OUR COUNTRY.
BECAUSE UNFORTUNATELY THERE
HAS BEEN A LOT OF VERY
DIVISIVE, DARK THINGS SAID
ABOUT MUSLIMS. AND EVEN
SOMEBODY LIKE CAPTAIN TIME,
THE YOUNG MAN WHO SACRIFICED
THEMSELVES DEFENDING OUR
COUNTRY IN THE UNITED STATES
ARMY, HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO
ATTACK BY DONALD. I WANT TO
SAY A COUPLE OF THINGS. FIRST
WE HAVE HAD MUSLIMS IN AMERICA
SINCE GEORGE WASHINGTON. WE
HAVE HAD MANY SUCCESSFUL
MUSLIMS, WE JUST LOST A
PARTICULAR WELL NO ONE WITH
MUHAMMAD ALI. MY VISION OF
AMERICA IS IN AMERICA WHERE
EVERYBODY HAS A PLACE IF
YOU'RE WILLING TO WORK HARD,
DO YOUR PART, YOU CONTRIBUTE
TO THE COMMUNITY. THAT IS WHAT
AMERICA IS AND WILL BE WANT
AMERICA TO BE FOR OUR CHILDREN
AND GRANDCHILDREN. IT IS ALSO
VERY SHORT-SIGHTED AND EVEN
DANGEROUS TO BE ENGAGING AND
THE KIND OF DEMAGOGIC RHETORIC
THAT DONALD HAS ABOUT MUSLIMS.
WE NEED AMERICAN MUSLIMS TO BE
PART OF OUR EYES AND EARS. ON
A FRONT LINES. I HAVE WORKED
WITH A LOT OF DIFFERENT MUSLIM
GROUPS AROUND AMERICA. I HAD
MET WITH A LOT OF THEM AND I
HAVE HEARD HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
FOR THEM TO FEEL THEY ARE
WANTED AND INCLUDED AN PART OF
OUR COUNTRY. PART OF OUR
HOMELAND SECURITY. AND THAT IS
WHAT I WANT TO SEE. IT IS ALSO
IMPORTANT AND I INTEND AT THE
ISIS, TO DO SO IN A COALITION
WITH MAJORITY MUSLIM NATIONS.
RIGHT NOW, A LOT OF THOSE
NATIONS ARE HERE AND WE
DONNELL SAYS AND WONDERING,
WHY SHOULD WE COOPERATE WITH
THE AMERICANS. THIS IS A GIFT
TO ISIS. AND THE TERRORIST. A
VIOLENT, JIHADIST TERRACE. WE
ARE NOT AT WAR WITH ISLA. IT
IS A MISTAKE AND IT PLAYS INTO
TH HANDS OF THE TERRORIST TO
ACT AS THOUGH WE ARE. SO I
WANT A COUNTRY WHERE CITIZENS
LIKE YOU AND YOUR FAMILY ARE
JUST AS WELCOME AS ANYBODY
ELSE.
>> THANK YOU SECRETARY
CLINTON. MR TRUMP IN DECEMBER
YOU SAID THIS, DONALD J TRUMP
IS CALLED FOR A TOTAL AND
COMPLETE SHUTDOWN OF MUSLIMS
BRING THE UNITED STATES AND
THE UNITED STATES UNTIL I CAN
CHOOSE REPRESENTATIVES CAN
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE HELL IS
GOING ON. WE HAVE NO CHOICE,
WE HAVE NO CHOICE. YOUR
RUNNING MATE SAID THIS WEEK
THAT THE MUSLIM BAND IS NO
LONGER YOUR POSITION. IS THAT
CORRECT AND IF IT IS, WAS IT A
MISTAKE TO HAVE A RELIGIOUS
TEST?
>> FIRST OF ALL, CAPTAIN KHAN
IS AN AMERICAN HERO. IF OUR
PRESIDENT AT THAT TIME, HE
WILL BE ALIVE TODAY. -- IF I
WAS PRESIDENT. UNLIKE HER, WHO
VOTED FOR THE WAR WITHOUT
KNOWING WHAT SHE WAS DOING, I
WOULD NOT HAVE HAD OUR PEOPLE
IN IRAQ, IRAQ WAS A DISASTER.
HE WOULD HAVE BEEN ALIVE
TODAY. THE MUSLIM BAND IS
SOMETHING THAT, IN SOME FORM
HAS MORPHED INTO AN EXTREME
BEDDINGS FROM CERTAIN AREAS OF
THE WORLD. HILLARY CLINTON,
WANTS TO ALLOW...
>> WHY DIDN'T MORPHED INTO
THAT? ANSWER THE QUESTION. DO
YOU STILL BELIEVE...
>> WHY DON'T YOU INTERRUPT
HER?
>> PLEASE EXPLAIN WHETHER THE
MUSLIM BAND STILL STANDS.
>> IS CALLED EXTREME BEDDING.
WE ARE GOING TO AREAS LIKE
SYRIA, WHERE THEY ARE COMING
IN BY THE TENS OF THOUSANDS
BECAUSE OF BARACK OBAMA AND
HILLARY CLINTON WAS TO ALLOW A
550% INCREASE OVER OBAMA.
PEOPLE ARE COMING INTO OUR
COUNTRY LIKE WE HAVE NO IDEA
WHO THEY ARE, WHERE THEY ARE
FROM, WHAT THEY ARE FEELINGS
ABOUT OUR COUNTRY IS, IF SHE
WANTS 505 -- 550% MORE. THE
GREAT SOLDIER COURSE OF ALL
TIME THIS WILL BE. WE HAVE
ENOUGH PROBLEMS IN THIS
COUNTRY. I BELIEVE IN BUILDING
SAFE ZONES, HAVING OTHE
PEOPLE PAY FOR THEM AS AN
EXAMPLE, THE GULF STATES WERE
NOT CARRYING THEIR WEIGHT BUT
HAVE NOTHING BUT MONEY. TO
TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. BUT I
DON'T WANT TOOUT THEIR
VALUES AND WE KNOW NOTHING ABOUT
THEIR LOVE FOR OUR COU
HAVE, WITH ALL THE PROBLEMS
THIS COUNTRY HAVE AND ALL THE
PROBLEMS THAT YOU SEE GOING
ON, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE COMING IN FROM SYRIA
WHEN WE KNOW NOTHING ABOUT
HIM. NOTHING ABOUT THE GUY
DOES IT KNOW NOTHING ABOUT
THEIR LOVE FOR OUR COUNTRY.
>> LET ME ASK YOU SECRETARY
CLINTON ABOUT THAT. YOU HAVE
ASKED FOR IT INCREASE FOR TEN
TO 65,000 SYRIAN REFUGEES. WE
KNOW YOU WANT TOUGHER BETTING,
THAT IS NOT A PERFECT SYSTEM.
WHY TAKE THE RISK OF HAVING
THOSE REFUGEES COME INTO THE
COUNTRY?
>> FIRST, I WILL NOT LET
ANYBODY INTO OUR COUNTRY THAT
I THINK POSES A RISK TO US.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF
REFUGEES, WOMEN AND CHILDREN,
THINK OF THAT PICTURE WE ALL
SAW, THAT FOUR-YEAR-OLD BOY
WITH THE BLOOD ON HIS FOREHEAD
BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN BOMBED BY
THE RUSSIANS SYRIAN AIR
FORCES. THERE ARE CHILDREN,
SUFFERING AND THIS
CATASTROPHIC WAR, LARGELY I
BELIEVE BECAUSE OF RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION. AND WE NEED TO DO
OUR PART. WE BY NO MEANS ARE
CARING ANYWHERE NEAR AND BELOW
THAT EUROPE AND OTHER ARE. BUT
WE WILL HAVE VETTING THAT IS
AS TOUGH AS IT NEEDS TO BE
FROM OUR PROFESSIONALS, OUR
INTELLIGENCE EXPERTS AND
OTHERS. IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US
AS A POLICY, NOT TO SAY AS
DONALD HAS SAYS, WILL BAN
PEOPLE BASED ON A RELIGION.
HOW DID YOU DO THAT? WE ARE
PEOPLE FOUNDED ON RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM AND LIBERTY. -- WE ARE
A COUNTRY FOUNDED. ADDED WE DO
WHAT HE HAS ADVOCATED WITHOUT
CAUSING CAUSING GREAT DISTRESS
WITHIN OUR OWN COUNTRY. WHAT
WE HAVE A RELIGIOUS TEST? WHEN
PEOPLE FLY INTO OUR COUNTRY.
AND HOW DO WE EXPECT TO BE
ABLE TO IMPLEMENT THOSE? SO I
DOUBT THAT WHAT HE SAI WAS
EXTREMELY UNWISE AND EVEN
DANGEROUS. AND INDEED, YOU CAN
LOOK AT THE PROPAGANDA ON A
LOT OF THE TERRORIST SITES,
AND WHAT DONALD TRUMP SAYS
ABOUT MUSLIMS IS USED TO
RECRUIT FIGHTERS. BECAUSE THEY
WANT TO CREATE A MORE BETWEEN
US. THE FINAL THING I WOULD
SAY, THE TEN TO 12 TIMES THAT
HE HAS DENIED PAYING FOR THE
WAR IN IRAQ. WE HAVE IT ON
TAPE. -- BEING IN SUPPORT OF.
IT HAS BEEN DEBUNKED BUT IT
NEVER STOPS HIM FROM SAYING
WHATEVER HE WANTS TO.
>> HAS NOT BEEN DEBUNKED. I
WAS AGAINST THE WAR IN IRAQ.
IT HAS NOT BEEN DEBUNKED. YOU
VOTED FOR EARTH IT SHOULD
HAVE.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE ON.
>> SHE WON ABOUT 25 SECONDS
OVER HER TIME. BUT I JUST
RESPOND TO THIS PLEASE?
HILLARY CLINTON IN TERMS OF
HAVING PEOPLE COME INTO OUR
COUNTRY WE HAVE MANY CRIMINAL
ILLEGAL ALIENS. WHEN WE WENT
TO SEND THEM BACK TO THE
COUNTRY, THE COUNTRY SAYS WE
DON'T WANT HIM IN SOME CASES
THEY ARE MURDERERS, DRUG
LORDS... AND THEY DON'T WANT
THEM. HILLARY CLINTON, WHEN
SHE WAS SECRETARY SAID THAT IS
OK WITH CAN FORCE IT INTO THE
COUNTRY. I WILL FOR SOME PRIDE
BACK INTO THE COUNTRY. THEY
ARE MURDERERS, HAS A VERY BAD
PEOPLE. -- I WILL FORCE THEM
BACK INTO. WHEN THE BERNIE
SANDERS SAID SHE HAD BAD
JUDGMENT. SHE REALLY DOES
BECAUSE WE ARE LETTING PEOPLE
INTO THIS COUNTRY THAT WILL
CAUSE PROBLEMS AND CRIME WOULD
YOU HAVE NEVER SEEN. ALSO
LEADING DRUGS FOR THROUGH OUR
SOUTHERN BERDYCH AT A RECORD
CLIP -- SOUTHERN BORDERS. IT
SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO HAPPEN.
ISIS UP -- ICE... THE BORDER
CONTROL AGENTS, 16,500
RECENTLY ENDORSED ME. THEY
ENDORSED ME BECAUSE I
UNDERSTAND THE BORDER. SHE
DOES NOT SEE WANTS AMNESTY FOR
EVERYBODY, COME RIGHT IN, COME
RIGHT OVER. IT IS A HORRIBLE
THING SHE IS DOING. SHE HAS
BAD JUDGMENT AND HONESTLY, SO
BAD, THAT SHE SHOULD NEVER BE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. THAT I CONTINUE.
>> I WANT TO MOVE ON. THIS
NEXT QUESTION COMES FROM THE
PUBLIC TO THE BIPARTISAN OPEN
DEBATE COALITION ONLINE FORUM
WHERE AMERICAN SAMOA QUESTIONS
THAT GENERATED MILLIONS ABOVE.
THIS QUESTION INVOLVES THE
CULEX RELEASE OF REPORTED
EXCERPTS OF SECRETARY
CLINTON'S PAID SPEECHES WHICH
HE HAD REFUSED TO RELEASE. ONE
LINE IN PARTICULAR IN WHICH
YOU SECRETARY CLINTON
REPORTEDLY SAY, YOU NEED BOTH
THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
POSSESSION ON CERTAIN ISSUES.
SO, TO VIRGINIA ACTS, IS IT
FOR POLITICIANS TO BE 2-FACED.
IS IT ACCEPTABLE FOR A
POLITICIAN TO HAVE A PROPER
STANCE ON ISSUES? SECRETARY
CLINTON.
>> AS I RECALL, THAT WAS
SOMETHING I SAID ABOUT ABRAHAM
LINCOLN AFTER HAVING SEEN THE
WONDERFUL STEVEN SPIELBERG
MOVIE CALLED LINCOLN. IT WAS A
MASTER CLASS WATCHING
PRESIDENT LINCOLN GET THE
CONGRESS TO APPROVE THE 13TH
AMENDMENT. IT WAS POSSIBLE
THAN STRATEGIC. I WAS MAKING
THE POINT IT WAS HARD
SOMETIMES TO GET CONGRESS TO
DO WHAT YOU WANTED TO DO AND
YOU HAVE TO KEEP WORKING AT IT
AND GUESS, PRESIDENT LINCOLN
WAS TRYING TO CONVINCE SOME
PEOPLE AND YOU SOME ARGUMENTS,
COMMENCEMENT OF THE PEOPLE, HE
USED THAT ARGUMENT. THAT WAS A
GREAT DISPLAY OF PRESIDENTIAL
EADERSHIP. LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT IS REALLY GOING ON. OUR
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY JUST
CAME OUT AND SAT IN THE LAST
TWO DAYS, THAT THE KREMLIN,
MEANING THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
AND PRESIDENT PUTIN, ARE
DIRECTING THE ATTACKS AND
HACKING OF AMERICAN ACCOUNTS
TO INFLUENCE OUR ELECTION. AND
WIKILEAKS IS PART OF THAT AS
OUR OTHER SITES WHERE THE
RUSSIANS HACK INFORMATION AND
WE DON'T EVEN KNOW IF IT'S
ACCURATE INFORMATION, AND THEN
THEY PUT IT OUT. WE HAVE NEVER
IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY
BEEN IN A SITUATION WHERE AN
ADVERSARY, A FOREIGN POWER, IS
WORKING SO HARD TO INFLUENCE
THE OUTCOME OF THE ELECTION.
BELIEVE ME, THEY ARE NOT DOING
IT TO GET ME ELECTED. THEY ARE
DOING GOOD TO GET INFLUENCE
THE ELECTION FOR DONALD TRUMP.
MAYBE BECAUSE HE HAS PRAISED
PRESIDENT PUTIN, MAYBE BECAUSE
HE SAYS HE AGREES WITH A LOT
OF WHAT HE WANTS TO DO. MAYBE
BECAUSE HE WANTS TO DO
BUSINESS IN MOSCOW, I DON'T
KNOW THE BRIEFINGS. BUT WE
DESERVE ANSWERS. WE SHOULD
DEMAND THAT, WE LIST ALL OF
HIS TAX RETURNS SO THAT PEOPLE
CAN SEE WHAT ARE THE
ENTANGLEMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL
RELATIONS... THAT HE HAS WHAT
RUSSIA AND OTHER FOREIGN
POWERS.
>> SO RIDICULOUS. LOOK, NOW
SHE IS BLAMING, SHE GOT CAUGHT
IN A TOTAL LIE. OUR PAPERS
WENT OUT TO ALL HER FRIENDS AT
THE BANKS. -- HER PAPERS. SHE
SAID WIKILEAKS... AND SHE
LIED. NOW SHE IS BLAMING THE
LIVE FOR THE LATE GREAT
ABRAHAM LINCOLN. LAUGHTER ON
ABE NEVER LIED. THAT IS THE
BIG DIFFERENCE WAS ONE ABRAHAM
LINCOLN AND YOU. THAT IS A BIG
BIG DIFFERENCE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT. AS FAR AS OTHER
ELEMENTS OF WHAT SHE WAS
DOING, I DON'T KNOW PUTIN. I
THINK YOU'LL BE GREAT IF WE
GOT ALONG WITH RUSSIA. WHO
COULD FIGHT ISIS TOGETHER AS
AN EXAMPLE BUT I DON'T KNOW.
ANYTIME ANYTHING HAPPENS
UNNOTICED, THEY LIKE TO SAY,
THE RUSSIANS... SHE DOESN'T
KNOW IF IT IS THE RUSSIANS
DOING THE HACKING. MAYBE THERE
IS NO HACKING. BUT THEY ALWAYS
CLAIM RUSSIA BECAUSE THEY
HINK THEY ARE TRYING TO
PUNISH ME WITH RUSSIA. I KNOW
NOTHING RUSSIA. I KNOW ABOUT
RUSSIA, BUT I KNOW NOTHING
ABOUT THE INNER WORKINGS. I
HAVE NO BUSINESS IS THERE. I
HAVE A VERY GREAT BALANCE
SHEET, THAT WHEN I DID THE OLD
POST OFFICE ON PENNSYLVANIA
AVENUE, THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF MY
BALANCE SHEET WHICH THEY KNOW
VERY WELL, CHOSE ME TO DO THE
OLD POST OFFICE FOR 20 WHITE
HOUSE AND CONGRESS. CHOSE ME
TO DO. ONE OF THE THINGS WAS
BALANCE SHEET. I HAVE NO LOANS
WITH RUSSIA. YOU CAN GO TO THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND
THEY WILL PROBABLY TELL YOU
THAT BECAUSE THEY KNOW MY
SHEEP VERY WELL IN ORDER TO
GET THAT DEVELOPMENT. THE
TAXES ARE VERY SIMPLE THING.
AS SOON AS I HAVE, I PAY
HUNDREDS OF METERS OF DOLLARS
FOR THE LAW. MANY OF OUR
FRIENDS TO BIGGER DEDUCTIONS,
WARREN BUFFET, TOOK A MASSIVE
DEDUCTION, GEORGE SOROS, A
FRIEND OF HERS. MANY OF THE
PEOPLE GIVEN HER ALL THIS
MONEY THAT SHE CAN DO MANY
MORE COMMERCIALS THAN ME. GAVE
HER DENTED DEDUCTIONS. I PAY
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN TAXES, BUT AS SOON
AS MY ROUTINE AUDITS IS
FINISHED I WILL RELEASE MY
RETURNS AND BE PROUD TO.
>> TOPIC OF TAXES, A QUESTION
FROM SPENCER MOSS.
>> GOOD EVENING. MY QUESTION
IS WHETHER SPECIFIC TAX
PROVISIONS WILL YOU CHANGE TO
ASSURE THE WEALTHIEST
AMERICANS PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE
IN TAXES? ONE THING I WOULD DO
IS GIVE HER THE CARRIED
INTEREST. ONE OF THE GREATEST
PROVISIONS OF PEOPLE LIKE ME
TO BE HONEST WITH YOU. I GIVE
UP A LOT WHEN I RUN. I KNOCK
AT THE TAX CUT. SHE COULD'VE
DONE THIS YEARS AGO. SHE'S WAS
A UNITED STATES SENATOR. SHE
COMPLAINS THAT DONALD TRUMP
TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THE TAX CUT.
WELL, WHY DID SHE CHANGE IT?
WHY DID YOU CHANGE IT WOULD DO
WHAT SENATOR? THE REASON IS
BECAUSE ALL YOUR FRIENDS TAKE
THE SAME ADVANTAGE. YOU HAVE
PROVISIONS AND THE TAX CODE
THAT WE COULD CHANGE. BUT YOU
WOULD NOT CHANGE IT BECAUSE
ALL OF THESE PEOPLE GIVE YOU
THE MONEY SO YOU CAN TAKE A
NEGATIVE ADS ON DONALD TRUMP.
BUT, I SAY THAT ABOUT A LOT OF
THINGS, I HAVE HEARD HILLARY
COMPLAINING ABOUT SO MANY
DIFFERENT THINGS OVER THE
YEARS. BUT SHE HAS BEEN THERE
FOR 30 YEARS WINDOWS VISTA.
SHE NEVER CHANGES. SHE NEVER
WAS CHANGED. GETTING RID OF
CARRIED INTEREST PROVISIONS,
LOWERING TAXES BECAUSE I THINK
IT IS SO IMPORTANT. WE HAVE
CORPORATIONS LIVING MASSIVE
CORPORATIONS AND LITTLE ONES.
THE ONES CANNOT FORM. GETTING
RID OF REGULATIONS WHICH GOES
HAND-IN-HAND WITH THE LOWERING
OF THE TAXES. BRINGING THE TAX
RATE DOWN FROM 35% TO 15%.
CUTTING TAXES FOR THE MIDDLE
CLASS AND I WILL TELL YOU, WE
ARE KIND OF BIG LEAGUE FOR THE
MIDDLE-CLASS. I WOULD TAKE
YOU, HILLARY CLINTON IS
RAISING THE TAXES. LOOK AT ME,
SHE IS RAISING TAXES, REALLY
HIGH. WHAT THAT WILL DO IS A
DISASTER FOR THE COUNTRY. BUT
SHE IS RAISING THE TAXES AND I
AM LOWERING THEM. THAT IN
ITSELF IS A BIG DIFFERENCE. WE
ARE GOING TO BE THRIVING
AGAIN. WE HAVE NO GROWTH IN
THIS COUNTRY. IF CHINA HAS A
GDP OF SEVERAL PERCENT, A
NATIONAL CATASTROPHE. WE ARE
DOWN TO 1% AND THAT IS NO
GROWTH. WE ARE GOING LOWER IN
MY OPINION. A LOT OF IT HAS TO
DO WITH THE FACT THAT OUR
TAXES ARE SO HIGH. JUST ABOUT
THE HIGHEST IN THE WORLD. I AM
BRINGING THEM DOWN TO ONE OF
THE LOWER IN THE WORLD. I
THINK IT IS SO IMPORTANT, ONE
OF THE MOST ABUNDANT THINGS WE
DO. BUT SHE IS RAISING
EVERYBODY'S TAXES MASSIVELY.
>> THE CREDIT CARD AND YOU
HAVE TWO MINUTES. -- SECRETARY
CLINTON.
>> EVER THINK YOU HAVE HEARD
JUST NOW FROM DONALD DOES NOT
SHOW. I'M SORRY YOU HAVE TO
KEEP SAYING THAT. HE LIVES IN
ALTERNATIVE REALITY. IT IS
AMUSING TO HEAR SOMEBODY WHO
HASN'T PAID FEDERAL INCOME
TAXES AND MAYBE 20 JUST
TALKING ABOUT WHAT HE'LL DO. I
WILL TAKE YOU WHAT HE WILL DO.
HIS PLAN WOULD GIVE THE PLAN
WEALTHY AND CORPORATIONS THE
BIGGEST TASK IS TO HAVE EVER
HAD. MORE THAN THE BUSH TAX
CUTS BY AT LEAST A FACTOR OF
TWO. DONALD ALWAYS TAKES CARE
OF DONALD AND PEOPLE LIKE
DONALD. THIS WOULD BE A
MASSIVE GIFT. INDEED, THE
WEIGHT THAT HE TALKS ABOUT HIS
TAX CUTS WOULD END UP RAISING
TAXES ON MIDDLE-CLASS
FAMILIES. MILLIONS OF
MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILIES. HERE'S
WHAT I WANT TO DO. I HAVE
SAID, NOBODY WHO MAKES LESS
THAN $250,000 A YEAR, THE VAST
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS AS YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE THE TAXES
RAISED. I THINK WE HAVE TO GO
WITH THE MANY AS AND THE MONEY
IS WITH PEOPLE WHO HAVE TAKEN
ADVANTAGE OF EVERY SINGLE
BREAK IN THE TAX CODE. WHEN I
WAS A SENATOR AND YES I DID
VOTE TO CLOSE CORPORATE
LOOPHOLES. I'VE VOTED TO CLOSE
TO ONE OF THE NEW POLICY TO
PREVENT ITSELF FROM THE CLIENT
A BILLION-DOLLAR LOSS THAT
ENABLED HIM TO AVOID PAYING
TAXES. I WOULD HAVE A TAX ON
PEOPLE WHO ARE MAKING $1
MILLION, CALLED THE BUFFET OF
ROLE. WARREN BUFFETT IS THE
ONE WHO HAS GONE AND SAID
SOMEBODY LIKE HIM SHOULD NOT
BE PAYING A LOWER TAX RATE
THAT HIS SECRETARY. I WANT TO
HAVE A SURCHARGE ON INCOMES
ABOVE THE MOON. WE HAVE TO
MAKE UP FOR LOST TIME BECAUSE
I WANT TO INVESTIGATE. --
ABOVE $5 MILLION. I THINK IT
HAS BEEN UNFORTUNATE, BUT IT
HAS HAPPENED THAT SINCE THE
GREAT RECESSION, THE GAMES
HAVE ALL GONE TO THE TOP. WE
NEED TO REVERSE THAT. PEOPLE
LIKE DONALD PAPAZIAN WROTE IN
TAXES, 04 FOR OUR VETERANS,
ZERO FOR A MILITARY, ZERO FOR
HEALTH AND EDUCATION, THAT IS
WRONG. WE WILL MAKE SURE THAT
NOBODY, NO CORPORATIONS, NO
INDIVIDUALS, CAN GET AWAY
WITHOUT PAYING HIS FAIR SHARE
TO SUPPORT OUR COUNTRY.
>> ON TO GIVE YOU A CHANCE TO
RESPOND MR TRUMP. THE LAST
MONTH, TAXES WOULD BE NUMBER
ONE ISSUE ON FACEBOOK FOR THE
FIRST TIME. THE NEW YORK TIMES
PUFF WAS THREE PAGES OF UNITY
95 TAX RETURN AND SHOW CLIENT
AT ALMOST $1 BILLION LOSS WAS
WHEN SHE COULD'VE AVOIDED
PAYING PERSONAL TAXES FOR YOU.
YOU SAID YOU PAY STATE TAXES,
REAL ESTATE TAXES, YOU HAVE
NOT ANSWERED THOSE SIMPLE
QUESTIONS. DID YOU CHOOSE THAT
ALMOST BILLION-DOLLAR LOSS TO
AVOID PAYING FEDERAL INCOME
TAXES?
>> OF COURSE I'D DO. SO DO ALL
OF OUR DONORS OR MOST OF THEM.
I KNOW MANY OF OUR DONORS. OUR
DONORS TO THE MASSIVE TAX
WRITE OFF. A LOT OF MY... A
MORATA WAS DEPRECIATION. OTHER
THINGS THAT HILLARY AS A
SENATOR ALLOWED. SHE ALWAYS
ALLOWED BECAUSE THE PEOPLE
THEY GIVE HER ALL THIS MONEY
WANTED. THAT IS WHY. I
UNDERSTAND THE TAX CODE BETTER
THAN ANYBODY THAT HAS EVER
BEEN FOR PRESIDENT. HILLARY
CLINTON, HAS FRIENDS AT THAT
POINT ALL OF THESE PROVISIONS
INCLUDING, THE CARRIED
INTEREST PROVISION WHICH IS
VERY IMPORTANT TO WALL STREET
PEOPLE. THEY REALLY WANT THE
CARRIED INTEREST PROVISIONS.
WHICH I BELIEVE HILLARY IS
LEAVING. THERE ARE INTERESTING
QUESTION YOU LEAVING THAT. I
WILL TELL YOU THAT NUMBER ONE
TYPE KIM IN THIS NUMBERS OF
TAXES. I'D USE IT AND SO DID
WARREN BUFFETT AND GEORGE
SOROS. SO DID MANY OF THE
OTHER PEOPLE THAT HILLARY IS
GETTING MONEY FROM. I WILL
MENTION -- I WILL NOT MENTION
THE NAME. THE AVERAGE, BUT
THEY WERE NOT FAMOUS. SENATOR
MCCAIN USING HOW MANY GEARS
YOU HAVE AVOIDED PAYING TAXES?
>> NO, BUT I PAY TAX IN
FEDERAL TAX. I HAVE A RUNOFF,
A LOT OF IT IS DEPRECIATION. I
LOVE DEPRECIATION. SHE HAS
GIVEN IT TO US. IF SHE HAD A
PROBLEM, FOR A PEDICURE SHE
HAS BEEN DOING THIS. SHE
TALKED ABOUT HEALTH CARE. WHAT
IF SHE DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
BUT SHOULD DO SOMETHING ABOUT
TAXES. SHE DOES NOT DO
ANYTHING ABOUT ANYTHING OTHER
THAN TALK. WHATEVER IT IS ALL
TALK AND NO ACTION. AGAIN,
BERNIE SANDERS, REALLY BAD
JUDGMENT. SHE HAS MADE BAD
JUDGMENT, NOT ONLY ON TAXES,
BAD JUDGMENTS ON LIBYA. SYRIA.
IRAQ. HER AND OBAMA, WHAT DO
YOU LIKE IT OR NOT, THE WAY
THEY GOT OUT OF IRAQ, THE
VACUUM THEY HAVE LEFT, THAT IS
WHY ICE IS FORMED IN THE FIRST
PLACE. THE STARTER FROM THAT
LITTLE AREA AND NOW THEY ARE
AND 32 DIFFERENT NATIONS.
CONGRATULATIONS, GREAT JOB.
>> WELL, HERE WE GO AGAIN. I
HAVE BEEN IN FAVOR OF GETTING
RID OF CARRIED INTEREST FOR
YEARS. STARTING WHEN I WAS A
SENATOR FROM NEW YORK, BUT
THAT IS NOT THE POINT HERE.
>> WHY DIDN'T YOU DO IT?
>> BECAUSE I WAS A SENATOR
WITH A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT. I
WILL BE...
>> IF YOU ARE AN EFFECTIVE
SENATOR YOU WOULD HAVE DONE
IT. BUT YOU ARE NOT AN
EFFECTIVE SENATOR.
>> UNDER OUR CONSTITUTION,
PRESIDENT HAD SOMETHING CALLED
THE GO POWER. HE HAS NOW SAID
REPEATEDLY 30 YEARS THIS, AND
30 YEARS THAT. LET ME TALK
ABOUT MY 30 YEARS IN PUBLIC
SERVICE. I AM VERY GLAD TO DO
SO. 8 MILLION KIDS, EVERY YEAR
HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE BECAUSE
WHEN I WAS FIRST LADY I WORKED
WITH DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
TO CREATE THE CHILDREN'S
HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF KIDS
NOW HAVE A CHANCE TO BE
ADOPTED. BECAUSE I WORKED TO
CHANGE OUR ADOPTION AND FOSTER
CARE SYSTEM. AFTER 9/11, I
WENT TO WORK WITH REPUBLICAN
MAYOR, GOVERNOR, AND
PRESIDENT, TO REBUILD NEW YORK
AND TO GET HEALTH CARE FOR OUR
FIRST RESPONDERS WHO WERE
SUFFERING WHO HAD RUN TOWARD
DANGER AND GONE SECOND BITE.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
MEMBERS HAVE HEALTH CARE
BECAUSE OF WHAT THAT I DID.
AND, CHILDREN HAVE SAFER
MEDICINES BECAUSE WAS ABLE TO
PASS A LAW THAT REQUIRED THE
DOSING TO BE MORE CAREFULLY
DONE. WHEN I WAS SECRETARY OF
STATE, I WENT AROUND THE WORLD
ADVOCATING FOR OUR COUNTRY BUT
ALSO ADVOCATING FOR WOMEN'S
RATES. TO MAKE SURE THAT WOMEN
HAD A DECENT CHANCE TO HAVE A
BETTER LIFE, AND NEGOTIATED A
TREATY WITH RUSSIA TO LOWER
NUCLEAR WEAPONS. 400 PIECES OF
LETTUCE TATIAN HAVE MY LET --
NAME ON IT. AS A SPONSOR,
CO-SPONSOR, WHEN I WAS A
SENATOR FOR EIGHT YEARS. I
WORKED VERY HARD AND WAS PROUD
TO BE REELECTED IN NEW YORK BY
AN EVEN BIGGER MARGIN THAN I
HAD BEEN ELECTED THE FIRST
TIME. AS PRESIDENT, I WILL
TAKE THAT WORK THAT BIPARTISAN
WORK, THAT FINDING COMMON
GROUND, BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T GET
ALONG WITH PEOPLE TO GET
THINGS DONE IN WASHINGTON.
>> I HAVE PROVEN THAT I CAN
AND FOR 30 YEARS, I PRODUCE
RESULTS.
>> THANK YOU, SECRETARY.
>> WE'RE MOVING ON TO SYRIA.
BOTH OF YOU HAVE MENTIONED
THAT. ... MR TRUMP WE ARE
GOING TO MOVE ON. THE
HEARTBREAKING VIDEO OF A
FIVE-YEAR-OLD SYRIAN BOY
SITTING IN AN AMBULANCE AFTER
BEING PULLED FROM THE RUBBLE
AFTER AN AIR STRIKE IN ALEPPO
FOCUSED THE WORLD'S ATTENTION
ON THE HORRORS OF THE WAR IN
SYRIA, WITH 136 MILLION VIEWS
ON FACEBOOK ALONE. THERE MUST
-- MUCH WORSE IMAGES COMING
OUT ALEPPO EVERY DAY NOW,
WERE IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS
ALONE 100 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED, AT LEAST -- 400, AT
LEAST ONE OF HUNDRED OF THEM
TOLD -- AT LEAST 100 OF THEM
CHILDREN. FOR THEIR
BOMBARDMENT OF ALEPPO. THIS
NEXT QUESTION COMES FROM
SOCIAL MEDIA THROUGH FACEBOOK.
DIANE FROM PENNSYLVANIA ASKS
"IF YOU WERE PRESIDENT, WHAT
WOULD YOU DO ABOUT SYRIA AND
THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN
ALEPPO? AND SENATE A LOT LIKE
THE HOLOCAUST WHEN THE US
WAITED TOO LONG BEFRE WE
HELP?" SECRETARY CLINTON, WE
WILL BEGIN WITH YOU.
>> THE SITUATION IN HERE IS
CATASTROPHIC. EVERY DAY THAT
GOES BY WE SEE THE RESULTS THE
REGIME, BY ASSAD, IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE IRANIANS
ON THE GROUND, THE RUSSIANS IN
THE AIR, BOMBARDING PLACES IN
PARTICULAR, ALEPPO. WHER
THERE ARE ARE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE, PROBABLY
ABOUT 250,000 STILL LEFT.
THERE IS A DETERMINED EFFORT
BY THE RUSSIAN AIR FORCE TO
DID -- DESTROY ALEPPO IN ORDER
TO ELIMINATE THE LAST OF THE
SYRIAN REBELS WHO WERE REALLY
HOLDING OUT AGAINST THE ASSAD
REGIME. RUSSIA HAS NOT PAID
ANY ATTENTION TO ISIS. THEY
ARE INTERESTED IN KEEPING A
THOUGHT IN POWER. SO WHEN I
WAS SECRETARY OF STATE, I
ADVOCATED AND I ADVOCATE TODAY
A NO-FLY ZONE AND SAFE ZONES,
AND WE NEED SOME LEVERAGE WITH
THE RUSSIANS, BECAUSE THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO COME TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE FOR A
DIPLOMATIC RESOLUTION UNLESS
THERE IS SOME LEVERAGE OVER
THEM. WE HAVE TO WORK MORE
CLOSELY WITH OUR PARTNERS AND
ALLIES ON THE GROUND. BUT I
WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT WHAT IS
AT STAKE HERE IS THE AMBITION
AND INDEED THE AGGRESSIVENESS
OF RUSSIA. RUSSIA HAS DECIDED
THAT IT IS IN IN SYRIA, AND
THEY HAVE ALSO DECIDED WHO
THEY WANT TO SEE BECOME
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AS WELL. IT IS NOT ME. I HAVE
STOOD UP TO RUSSIA, I HAVE
TAKEN ON PUTIN AND OTHERS, AND
I WOULD DO THAT AS PRESIDENT.
AND I THINK WHEREVER WE CAN
COOPERATE WITH RUSSIA, THAT IS
FINE. I DID AS SECRETARY OF
STATE, THAT IS HOW WE GOT A
TREATY REDUCING NUCLEAR
WEAPONS. IT IS HOW WE GOT THE
SANCTIONS ON IRAN THAT PUT A
LID ON THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR
PROGRAM WITHOUT FIRING A
SINGLE SHOT. I WOULD GO TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE WITH MORE
LEVERAGE THAN WE HAVE NOW. BUT
I DO SUPPORT THE EFFORT TO
INVESTIGATE WAR CRIMES, WAR
CRIMES, COMMITTED BY THE
SYRIANS AND THE RUSSIANS AND
TRY TO HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE.
>> THANK YOU, SECRETARY
CLINTON.
>> AS SECRETARY OF STATE, WITH
THE SO-CALLED LINE IN THE
SAND,...
>> I HATE TO INTERRUPT YOU, I
WAS GONE. AT SOME POINT WE
NEED TO DO SOME FACT CHECKING
HERE.
>> PERHAPS, SADLY OBAMA
PROBABLY STILL LISTENED TO
YOU, I DON'T THINK HE LISTENS
TO YOU VERY MUCH ANYMOE.
OBAMA DRAWS THE LINE IN THE
SAND, IT WAS LAUGHED AT ALL
OVER THE WORLD, WHAT HAPPENED.
WITH THAT BEING SAID, SHE
TALKS TOUGH AGAINST RUSSIA.
BUT OUR NUCLEAR PROGRAM HAS
FALLEN WAY BEHIND AND THEY
HAVE GONE WILD WITH THEIR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM, NOT GOOD. MY
GOVERNMENT SHOULD NOT HAVE
ALLOWED THAT TO HAPPEN. RUSSIA
IS NEW IN TERMS OF NUCLEAR, WE
AREN'T, WE'RE TIRED, WE'RE
EXHAUSTED IN TERMS OF NUCLEAR.
SHE TALKS TOUGH, SHE TALKS
REALLY TOUGH AGAINST PUTIN,
AND AGAINST ASSAD. SHE TALKS
IN FAVOR OF THE REBELS. SHE
DOESN'T KNOW WHO THE REBELS
ARE. EVERY TIME WE TAKE
REBELS, WHETHER IT IS IN IRAQ
OR SYRIA, WE'RE ARMING PEOPLE,
AND YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENS?
THEY END UP BEING WORSE THAN
THE PEOPLE. LOOK AT WHAT SHE
DID IN LIBYA WITH GADHAFI. IT
IS A MESS. ISIS HAS A GOOD
CHUNK OF THAT, I AM SURE YOU
OFFER THAT. IT WAS A DISASTER.
THE FACT IS THAT ALMOST
EVERYTHING SHE HAS DONE IN
FOREIGN POLICY HAS BEEN A
MISTAKE AND IT HAS BEEN A
DISASTER. BUT IF YOU LOOK AT
RUSSIA, JUST TAKE A LOOK AT
RUSSIA, AND LOOK THERE BUT
THEY DID THIS WEEK, WHERE I
AGREE, SHE WAS OUT THERE, BUT
POSSIBLY SHE'S GOING TO SEE
IT. WE SEND A PEACE TREATY AND
EVERYONE IS ALL EXCITED. BY
THE WAY, WITH IRAN, AND WE
MADE VERY POWERFUL WITH THE
DUMBEST DEAL PERHAPS I HAVE
SEEN IN THE HISTORY OF
DEAL-MAKING, THE ORIGINAL WITH
$150 BILLION, BUT THE $1.7
BILLION IN CASH, WHICH IS
ENOUGH CASH TO FILL THIS ROOM.
LOOK AT THAT DEAL. IRAN NOW
AND RUSSIA NOW ARE AGAINST US.
SHE WANTS TO FIGHT, SHE WANTS
TO FIGHT FOR REBELS, THERE IS
ONLY ONE PROBLEM. YOU DO NOT
KNOW WHO THE REBELS ARE.
>> MR TRUMP, YOUR TWO MINUTES
ARE UP.
>> I DO NOT LIKE ASSAD AT ALL,
BUT ASSAD IS KILLING ISIS.
RUSSIA IS KILLING ISIS. AND
IRAN IS KILLING ISIS. AND
THOSE THREE HAVE NOW WIND-UP
BECAUSE OF OUR WEAK FOREIGN
POLICY.
>> MR TRUMP, LET ME REPEAT THE
QUESTION. IF YOU WERE
PRESIDENT, WHAT DID YOU DO
ABOUT SYRIA AND THE
HMANITARIAN CRISIS IN ALEPPO,
AND I WANT TO REMIND YOU WHAT
YOUR RUNNING MATE SAID. HE
SAID "PROVOCATIONS BY RUSSIA
NEED TO BE MET WITH AMERICAN
STRENGTH AND THAT IF RUSSIA
CONTINUES TO BE INVOLVED IN
AIR STRIKES, ALONG WITH THE
SIRI AND GOVERNMENT FORCES OF
ASSAD, THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA SHOULD BE PREPARED TO
USE MILITARY FORCE TO STRIKE
MILITARY TARGETS OF THE ASSAD
REGIME".
>> I DISAGREE.
>> YOU DISAGREE WITH YOUR
RUNNING MATE?
>> RIGHT NOW, SYRIA IS
FIGHTING ISIS. WE DO NOT WANT
TO FIGHT BUT THAT THE SAME
TIME. SYRIA IS NO LONGER
SYRIA. SIRI AT HIS RUSSIA, AND
IT IS A RANDY SHE MADE STRONG,
AND OBAMA MADE IT TO A VERY
POWERFUL A NATION AND A VERY
RICH NATION. VERY QUICKLY. I
BELIEVE WE HAVE TO GET ISIS,
WE HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT ISIS
BEFORE WE CAN GET TO MUCH MORE
INVOLVED. SHE HAD A CHANCE TO
DO SOMETHING, THEY HAD AGENTS,
AND I WAS THE LINE.
>> WHAT YOU THINK WILL HAPPEN
IF ALEPPO FALLS?
>> I THINK ALEPPO WAS A
DISASTER. HUMANITARIAN WISE...
>> I THINK HE BASICALLY HAS
FALLEN. IT BASICALLY HAS
FALLEN. YOU TOOK A LOOK AT
MOZILLA. THE STUPIDITY OF OUR
FOREIGN-POLICY. THE THINK A
LOT OF THE DIOCESE LEADERS ARE
IN MOSUL. -- ISIS. ALL OF
THESE ARE BAD LEADERS FROM
ISIS ARE LEAVING MOSUL. WHY
CANNOT THEY DO IT QUIETLY? WHY
CAN'T THEY DO THE ATTACK, MAKE
IT A SNEAK ATTACK, AND AFTER
THE ATTACK IS MADE, INFORM THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC THAT WE HAVE
KNOCKED OUT THE LEADERS, WE
HAVE HAD A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
PEOPLE LEAVE. WHY DO THEY HAVE
TO SAY WE'RE GOING TO BE
ATTACKING MOSUL WITHIN THE
NEXT 4-6 WEEKS? THAT IS WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING. HOW STUPID IS
OUR COUNTRY?
>> THERE ARE SOMETIMES REASONS
MILITARY DOESN'T.
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE.
>> I CANNOT THINK OF ANY.
>>...
>> I HAVE 200 GENERALS AND
ADMIALS WHO TRUST ME. I HAVE
21 CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF
HONOR RECIPIENTS, AND WE TALK
ABOUT IT ALL THE TIME. THEY
UNDERSTAND. WHY CAN'T THEY DO
SOMETHING SECRETIVELY? WHERE
THEY GO IN AND KNOCK OUT THE
LEADERSHIP. WHY WOULD THESE
PEOPLE STAY THERE? I HAVE BEEN
READING A...
>> TOMMY WHAT YOUR STRATEGY
IS.
>> THAT IS THE HARBOR OF
WHERE... THIS IS WHERE THEY
THINK THE ISIS LEADERS ARE.
WHY WOULD THEY BE STAYING
THERE? THEY'RE NOT STAYING
THERE ANYMORE. THEY ARE GONE.
EVERYBODY IS TALKING ABOUT HOW
IRAQ, WHICH IS US WITH OUR
LEADERSHIP, GOES INTO FIVE
MOSUL. WITH THESE 200 ADMIRALS
AND GENERALS,... GENERAL
GEORGE PATTON, GENERAL DOUGLAS
MACARTHUR ARE SPINNING IN
THEIR GRAVES AT THIS STUPIDITY
OF WHAT WE'RE DOING IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
>> I WERE GLUED TO SECRETARY
CLINTON. YOU WANT ASSAD TO GO,
YOU ADVOCATED ARMING REBELS,
BUT IT MAY BE TOO LATE FOR
ALEPPO. HE TALKED ABOUT
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS, THOSE
AFFELDT, CEASE-FIRES HAVE
FAILED, WOULD YOU INTRODUCE
THE THREAT OF US MILITARY
FORCE BEYOND A NO-FLY ZONE
AGAINST THE ASSAD REGIME TO
BACK UP DIPLOMACY?
>> I WOULD NOT USE AMERICAN
GROUND FORCES IN SYRIA. I
THINK THAT WOULD BE A VERY
SERIOUS MISTAKE. I DO NOT
THINK AMERICAN TROOPS SHOULD
BE HOLDING TERRITORY, WHICH IS
WHAT THEY WOULD HAVE TO DO AS
AN OCCUPYING FORCE, I DO NOT
THINK THAT IS A SMART
STRATEGY. I DO THINK THAT THE
USE OF SPECIAL FORCES, WHICH
WE ARE USING, THE USE OF
ENABLERS AND TRAINERS IN IRAQ,
WHICH IS HAD SOME POSITIVE OF
FAX, OR VERY MUCH IN OUR
INTERESTS, AND I DO SUPPORT
WHAT IS HAPPENING.
>> WHAT WOULD YOU DO
DIFFERENTLY THAN PRESIDENT
OBAMA?
>> MARTHA, I HOPE BY THE TIME
I AM PRESIDENT THAT WE WILL
HAVE PUSHED ISIS OUT OF IRAQ.
I DO THINK THAT THERE IS A
GOOD CHANCE THAT WE CAN TAKE
MOSUL, AND DONALD SAYS HE
KNOWS MORE ABOUT ISIS THEN THE
GENERALS. NO HE DOESN'T NOT.
THERE ARE A LOT OF VERY
IMPORTANT PLANNING GOING ON.
SOME OF IT IS TO SIGNAL TO THE
SUNNIS IN THE AREA AS WELL AS
KURDISH PESHMERGA FIGHTERS
THAT WE ALL NEED TO BE IN
THIS. AND THAT TAKES A LOT OF
PLANNING AND PREPARATION. I
WOULD GO AFTER BAGHDAD. I
WOULD SPECIFICALLY TARGET
BAGHDAD. BECAUSE I THINK OUR
TARGETING OF AL-QAEDA LEADERS,
AND I WAS INVOLVED IN A LOT OF
THOSE OPERATIONS, HIGHLY
CLASSIFIED ONES. MADE A
DIFFERENCE. I THINK I COULD
HELP. I WOULD ALSO CONSIDER
ARMING THE KURDS. THE KURDS
HAVE BEEN OUR BEST PARTNERS IN
SYRIA, AS WELL AS IRAQ. I KNOW
THERE IS A LOT OF CONCERN
ABOUT THAT IN SOME CIRCLES,
BUT I THINK THEY SHOULD HAVE
THE EQUIPMENT THEY NEED SO
THAT KURDISH AND ARAB FIGHTERS
ON THE GROUND OR THE PRINCIPAL
WAY THAT WE TAKE RAQQA AFTER
PUSHING ISIS OUT OF IRAQ.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WE'RE GOING TO GO A MINUTE
OVER, AND YOU DO NOT STOP HER.
WHEN I GO ONE SECOND OVER,...
IS REALLY VERY INTERESTING.
>> WE HAVE A QUESTION FROM
JAMES CARTER. MR CARTER.
>> MY QUESTION IS COLIN TO YOU
BELIEVE YOU CAN BE A DEVOTED
PRESIDENT TO ALL OF THE PEOPLE
IN THE UNITED STATES?
>> ABSOLUTELY. SHE CALLS OUR
PEOPLE THE PORTABLE, A LARGE
GROUP AND YOUR REDEEMABLE. --
DEPLORABLE. I WILL BE A
PRESENT FOR ALL PEOPLE AND I
WILL BE A PRESIDENT THAT WILL
TURN OUR INNER CITIES AROUND
AND WILL GIVE STRENGTH TO
PEOPLE AND WILL GIVE ECONOMICS
TO PEOPLE AND WE WILL BRING
JOBS BACK, BECAUSE NAFTA
SIGNED BY HER HUSBAND IS
PERHAPS THE GREATEST DISASTER
TRADE DEAL IN THE HISTORY OF
THE WORLD. NOT IN THIS
COUNTRY. IT STRIPPED US OF
MANUFACTURING JOBS. WE LOST
OUR JOBS, WE LOST OUR MONEY,
WE LOST OUR PLANS, IT IS A
DISASTER. AND NOW SHE WENT TO
SIGN TPP, AND SHE CALLED IT
THE GOLD STANDARD. JULY,
BECAUSE... SHE DID SAY THE
GOLD STANDARD, AND THEN SHE
DIDN'T. SO THEY ACTUALLY SAID
THAT SHE LIED. SHE LIED. BUT
SHE HAS LIED ABOUT A LOT OF
THINGS. I WOULD BE A PRESIDENT
FOR ALL OF THE PEOPLE. AFRICAN
AMERICANS, THE INNER CITIES,
DEVASTATING WHAT IS HAPPENING
TO OUR INNER CITIES. SHE HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT FOR
YEARS. AS USUAL, SHE TALKS
ABOUT IT, NOTHING HAPPENS. SHE
DOESN'T GET IT DONE. SAME WITH
THE LATINO AMERICANS. HISPANIC
AMERICANS. THE SAME EXACT
THING. THEY TALK, THEY DO NOT
GET IT DONE. HE DID TO THE
INNER CITIES AND IT IS 45%
POVERTY. AFRICAN-AMERICANS...
45% POVERTY IN THE INNER
CITIES. THE EDUCATION IS A
DISASTER. JOBS ARE ESSENTIALLY
NONEXISTENT. I MEAN, IT IS...
I HAVE BEEN SAYING IT MAKE...
BIG SPEECHES FOR I HAVE 20,000
- 30,000 PEOPLE. WHAT DO YOU
WANT TO LOSE? YOU DO NOT HAVE
ANYTHING TO LOSE. SHE HAS BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THE INNER CITIES
FOR 25 YEARS. NOTHING WILL
EVER HAPPEN. IF SHE IS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, NOTHING IS GOING TO
HAPPEN. IT IS GOING TO BE
TALKING. I WOULD JUST GET IT
BY OSMOSIS. SHE IS NOT DOING
ANY FAVORS, BUT BY DOING ALL
OF THE OTHER SAVERS, SHE'S
DOING ME FAVOR.
>> MR TRUMP.
>> SHE IS ALL TALK, IT IS NOT
TO THEM. I HAVE TO DO IS TAKE
A LOOK AT UPSTATE NEW YORK.
>> YOUR TWO MINUTES IS UP. YOU
HAVE TWO MINUTES, SECRETARY
CLINTON.
>> 67% OF THE PEOPLE VOTED TO
REELECT ME WHEN I WENT FOR MY
SECOND TERM, AND I WAS VERY
PROUD AND HUMBLED BY THAT. MR
CARTER, I HAVE TRIED MY ENTIRE
LIFE TO DO WHAT I CAN TO
SUPPORT CHILDREN AND FAMILIES.
RIGHT OUT OF LAW SCHOOL, I
WANT TO WORK FOR THE
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND.
DONALD TALKS A LOT ABOUT THE
30 YEARS I HAVE BEEN IN PUBLIC
SERVICE. I AM PROUD OF THAT. I
STARTED OFF AS A YOUNG LAWYER,
WORKING AGAINST DISCRIMINATION
AGAINST AFRICAN-AMERICAN
CHILDREN, IN SCHOOLS, AND IN
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM. I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THE KIDS
WITH DISABILITIES COULD GET A
PUBLIC EDUCATION, SOMETHING
THAT I CARE VERY MUCH ABOUT. I
HAVE WORKED WITH LATINOS, ONE
OF MY FIRST JOBS IN POLITICS
WAS DOWN IN SOUTH TEXAS
REGISTERING LATINO CITIZENS TO
BE ABLE TO VOTE. I HAVE A DEEP
DEVOTION TO USE YOUR
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT WORD. TO
MAKING SURE THAT EVERY
AMERICAN FEELS LIKE HE OR SHE
HAS A PLACE IN OUR COUNTRY.
AND, I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE LETTERS THAT I GET, A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE WORRIED THAT
MAYBE THEY WOULD NOT HAVE A
PLACE IN DONALD TRUMP'S
AMERICA. THEY WRITE ME AND ONE
WOMAN WROTE ME ABOUT HER SON
FELIX SHE ADOPTED HIM FROM
ETHIOPIA WHEN HE WAS A
TODDLER. HE IS TEN YEARS OLD
NOW. THIS IS THE ONLY COUNTRY
HE HAS EVER KNOWN. HE LISTENS
TO DONALD ON TV AND HE SAID TO
HIS MOTHER ONE DAY" WILL HE
SENT ME BACK TO ETHIOPIA AND
HE GETS ELECTED?" CHILDREN
LISTEN TO WHAT IS BEING SAID
TO GO BACK TO THE VERY FIRST
QUESTION. THERE IS A LOT OF
FEAR THAT IMPACT TEACHERS AND
PARENTS ARE CALLING IT THE
TRUMP EFFECT. BULLYING IS UP,
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE FEELING
UNEASY, A LOT OF KIDS ARE
EXPRESSING THEIR CONCERNS.
FIRST AND FOREMOST, I WILL DO
EVERYTHING TO REACH OUT TO
EVERYBODY, THE DEMOCRAT,
REPUBLICAN, INDEPENDENT,
PEOPLE ACROSS OUR COUNTRY. IF
YOU DO NOT VOTE FOR ME, I
STILL WANT TO BE OUR PRESIDENT
STOCK CHEVY...
>> I WANT TO BE THE BEST
PRESENT I CAN'T FOR EVERY
AMERICAN SUBJECT YOUR TWO
MINUTES ARE UP. I WANT TO
FOLLOW-UP ON SOMETHING. I
COMMENT YOU MADE LAST MONTH.
HE SAID THAT HALF OF DONALD
TRUMP'S SUPPORTERS ARE
DEPLORABLES, RACIST,
HOMOPHOBIC, XENOPHOBIC,
HOMOPHOBIC. YOU DID NOT
EXPRESS REGRET ABOUT THE TERM
DEPLORABLE. HOW CAN YOU UNITE
A COUNTRY IF YOU HAVE WRITTEN
OFF TENS OF MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS?
>> WITHIN HOURS, I SAID I WAS
SORRY ABOUT THE WAY I TALKED
ABOUT THAT. MY ARGUMENT IS NOT
WITH HIS SUPPORTERS, IT IS
WITH HIM. WITH THE HATEFUL AND
DIVISIVE CAMPAIGN THAT HE HAS
RUN. AND INCITING VIOLENCE AT
IS RALLIES, AND THE VERY
BRUTAL KINDS OF COMMENTS ABOUT
NOT JUST WOMEN, BUT ALL
AMERICANS. ALL KINDS OF
AMERICANS. AND, WHAT HE HAS
SAID ABOUT AFRICAN-AMERICANS
AND LATINOS, ABOUT MUSLIMS,
ABOUT POWS, ABOUT IMMIGRANTS,
ABOUT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES, HE HAS NEVER
APOLOGIZED FOR. I DO THINK
THAT A LOT OF THE TONE AND
TENOR THAT HE HAS SAID, THEY
RAN A CAMPAIGN BASED ON ISSUES
NOT INSULTS. WE TALKED ABOUT
WHAT WE WANTED TO DO. WE MIGHT
HAVE HAD SOME DIFFERENCES AND
WE HAD A LOT OF DEBATES, BUT
WE BELIEVED THAT WE COULD MAKE
THE COUNTRY BETTER AND I WAS
PROUD OF THAT.
>> WE HAVE A DIVIDED NATION.
WE HAVE A VERY DIVIDED NATION.
YOU LOOK AT CHARLOTTE, YOU
LOOK AT BALTIMORE, YOU LOOK AT
THE VIOLENCE THAT IS TAKING
PLACE IN THE INNER CITIES,
CHICAGO. DETECTABLE TO DC, WE
HAD A INCREASE IN MURDER.
WITHIN OUR CITIES. THE BIGGEST
IN 45 YEARS. WE HAVE A DIVIDED
NATION, BECAUSE PEOPLE LIKE
HER, AND BELIEVE ME. SHE HAS
TREMENDOUS HATE IN HER HEART.
WHEN SHE SAID DEPLORABLES, SHE
MEANT IT. WHEN SHE SAID THE
REDEEMABLE, THE REDEEMABLE,
YOU DID NOT MENTION THAT. WHEN
SHE SAID THEY ARE
IRREDEEMABLE, THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN EVEN WORSE.
>>...
>> SHE HAS TREMENDOUS HATRED.
THIS COUNTRY CANNOT TAKE
ANOTHER FOUR YEARS OF BARACK
OBAMA, AND THAT IS WHAT YOU'RE
GETTING WITH HER.
>> MR TRUMP, LET ME PARTY WITH
YOU. IN 2008 YOU WROTE THAT
THE MOST IMPORTANT
CHARACTERISTIC OF A GOOD
LEADER IS DISCIPLINE. YOU SAID
THAT IT LEADER DOESN'T HAVE
IT, HE OR SHE WILL NOT LAST
VERY LONG. IN THE DAYS AFTER
THE FIRST DEBATE HE SENT OUT A
SERIES OF TWEETS FROM THREE
AM- 5AM, INCLUDING ONE TO TELL
PEOPLE TO CHECK OUT SEC -- A
SEX TAPE.
>> IT WAS TO TAKE A LOOK AT A
PERSON... JUST SO YOU
UNDERSTAND, WHEN SHE SAID 3AM,
TAKE A LOOK AT BENGHAZI. SHE
SAID WAS GOING TO ANSWER THE
CALL AT 3AM? GUESS WHAT, SHE
NOT ANSWER BECAUSE...
>> IS THAT THE DISCIPLINE OF A
GOOD LEADER?
>> 600 TIMES SHE SAID SHE WAS
AWAKE AT THREE CLOCK IN THE
MORNING AND SHE SAID AND
TWEAKED OUT AT 3AM, BUT I WILL
NOT MENTION THAT. THE FAMOUS
THING, WE ARE GOING TO ANSWER
A CALL AT 3AM. AMBASSADOR
STEVENS SENT 600 REQUESTS FOR
HELP, AND THE ONLY ONE TO TALK
TO WAS SIDNEY BLUMENTHAL WHO
WAS HER FRIEND. AND NOT A GOOD
GUY BY THE WAY. SHE SHOULD NOT
BE TALKING ABOUT THAT.
TWEETING HAPPENS TO BE A
MODERN DAY FORM OF
COMMUNICATION. YOU CAN LIKE IT
OR NOT LIKE IT. I HAVE BETWEEN
FACEBOOK AND TWITTER, ALMOST
25 MILLION PEOPLE. THAT IS A
VERY EFFECTIVE WAY OF
COMMUNICATION, SO YOU CAN PUT
IT DOWN, BUT IT IS A VERY
EFFECTIVE FORM OF
COMMUNICATION. I AM NOT AN
PROUD OF IT.
>> CLINTON, BUT HE OF THE
DISCIPLINE TO BE A GOOD
LEADER?
>> NO.
>> I'M SHOCKED TO HEAR THAT.
>> IS NOT ONLY MY OPINION, IT
IS THE OPINION OF MANY OTHERS.
NATIONAL SECURITY EXPERTS,
REPUBLICAN, FORMER REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, BUT IT IS
IN PART BECAUSE THOSE OF US
WHO HAVE HAD THE GREAT
PRIVILEGE OF SEEING THIS JOB
UP CLOSE AND KNOW HOW
DIFFICULT IT IS, AND IT IS NOT
JUST BECAUSE I WATCH MY
HUSBAND TAKE A $300 BILLION
DEFICIT AND TURNED IT INTO A
$200 BILLION SURPLUS, AND 23
BILLION NEW -- MILLION JOBS
WERE CREATED. AFRICAN-AMERICAN
INCOMES WENT UP 33%. IT IS NOT
JUST BECAUSE I WORK WITH
GEORGE W BUSH AFTER 9/11. I
WAS VERY PROUD WHEN I TOLD
THEM WHAT THE CITY NEEDED, BUT
WE NEED TO RECOVER. HE SAID
YOU HAVE GOT IT. HE NEVER
WAVERED, HE STUCK WITH ME. I
HAVE WORKED, I ADMIRE
PRESIDENT OBAMA. HE INHERITED
THE WORST FINANCIAL CRISIS
SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION.
THAT WAS A TERRIBLE TIME FOR
OUR COUNTRY.
>> WE HAVE TO MOVE ALONG.
>> 5 MILLION HOMES WERE LOST.
>> $50 TRILLION IN FAMILY
WEALTH WAS WIPED OUT. WE ARE
BACK ON THE RIGHT TRACK. HE
WOULD SEND US BACK INTO
RECESSION, WITH HIS TAX PLANS.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON WE ARE
MOVING TO AN AUDIENCE BUT --
QUESTION.
>> SINCE 1929...
>> WE WANT TO GET TO THE
AUDIENCE. THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
BOTH OF YOU. LAUGHTER
>> WE HAVE ANOTHER AUDIENCE
QUESTION, BETH MILLER HAS A
QUESTION FOR BOTH CANDIDATES.
>> GOOD EVENING. PERHAPS THE
MOST IMPORTANT ASPECT OF THIS
ELECTION IS THE SUPREME COURT
JUSTICE. WHAT WOULD YOU
PRIORITIZE AS THE MOST
IMPORTANT ASPECT OF SELECTING
A SUPREME COURT JUSTICE?
>> WE BEGIN WITH YOUR TWO
MIUTES, SECRETARY CLINTON.
>> THANK YOU. YOU ARE RIGHT.
THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUES IN THIS
ELECTION. I WANT TO APPOINT
SUPREME COURT JUSTICES WHO
UNDERSTAND THE WAY THE WORLD
REALLY WORKS. WHO HAVE REAL
LIFE EXPERIENCE TO MAHUT NOT
JUST HAVE BEEN IN A BIG LAW
FIRM AND MAYBE CLERKS FOR A
JUDGE, AND THEN GOTTEN ON THE
BENCH, BUT MAYBE THEY TRIED TO
MORE CASES, THEY ACTUALLY
UNDERSTAND WHAT PEOPLE ARE UP
AGAINST. I THINK THE CURRENT
COURT HAS GONE THE DIRECTION.
I WOULD WANT TO SEE THE
SUPREME COURT REVERSED
CITIZENS UNITED AND GET DARK
UNACCOUNTABLE MONEY OUT OF OUR
POLITICS. DONALD WAS NOT AGREE
WITH THAT. I WOULD LIKE THE
SUPREME COURT TO UNDERSTAND
THAT VOTING RIGHTS ARE STILL A
BIG PROBLEM IN MANY PARTS OF
OUR COUNTRY. THAT WE DO NOT
ALWAYS DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE OF
COLOR AND OLDER PEOPLE AND
YOUNG PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
EXERCISE THEIR FRANCHISE. I
WANT TO HAVE A SUPREME COURT
THAT WILL STICK WITH ROE
VERSUS WADE, AND A WOMAN'S
BREAKAGES, AND IT SUPREME
COURT DOUBLE STICK WITH
MARRIAGE EQUALITY. DONALD HAS
PUT FORTH THE NAMES OF PEOPLE
HE WOULD CONSIDER. AND AMONG
THE ONES THAT HE HAS SUGGESTED
ARE PEOPLE WHO WOULD REVERSE
ROE VERSUS WADE, AND REVERSED
MARRIAGE EQUALITY. I THINK
THAT WOULD BE A TERRIBLE
MISTAKE. IT WOULD TAKE US
BACKWARDS. I WANT A SUPREME
COURT THAT DOESN'T NOT ALWAYS
SIDE WITH CORPORATE INTERESTS.
I WANT A SUPREME COURT THAT
UNDERSTANDS, BECAUSE YOU'RE
WEALTHY, AND YOU GIVE MORE
MONEY, IT IS NOT MEAN YOU
SHOULD HAVE ANY MORE RIGHTS
THAN ANYONE ELSE. I HAVE VERY
CLEAR VIEWS ABOUT WHAT I WANT
TO SEE AND TO CHANGE THE
BALANCE ON THE SUPREME COURT.
GREAT DEEPLY THAT THE SENATE
HAS NOT ITS JOB. THEY HAVE NOT
PERMITTED A VOTE ON THE PERSON
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA, A HIGHLY
QUALIFIED PERSON, MAY NOT HAVE
GIVEN HIM A VOTE, TO BE ABLE
TO HAVE THE FULL COMPLEMENT OF
NINE SUPREME COURT JUSTICES. I
THINK THAT WAS A DERELICTION
OF DUTY. I HOPE THAT THEY
WOULD SEE THEIR WAY TO DOING
IT, BUT IF I AM FORTUNATE
ENOUGH TO BE PRESIDENT, I WILL
BE IMMEDIATELY MOVED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE...
>> THANK YOU, YOU'RE OUT OF
TIME. MR TRUMP.
>> JUSTICE SCALIA, GREAT
JUDGE, DIED RECENTLY. AND, WE
HAVE A VACANCY. I AM LOOKING
TO APPOINT JUDGES WHO ARE MUCH
IN THE MOLD OF JUSTICE SCALIA.
I AM LOOKING FOR JUDGES, I
HAVE ACTUALLY PICKED 20 OF
THEM. SO THAT PEOPLE WOULD SEE
HIGHLY RESPECTED, HIGHLY
THOUGHT OF, AND ACTUALLY VERY
BEAUTIFULLY REVIEWED BY JUST
ABOUT EVERYBODY. BUT PEOPLE
THAT WILL RESPECT THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES. AND I THINK THAT THIS
IS SO IMPORTANT, ALSO THE
SECOND AMENDMENT, WHICH IS
TOTALLY UNDER SIEGE BY PEOPLE
LIKE HILLARY CLINTON. THEY
WILL RESPECT THE SECOND
AMENDMENT, AND WHAT IT STANDS
FOR AND WHAT IT REPRESENTS. SO
IMPORTANT TO ME. HILLARY
MENTIONED SOMETHING ABOUT
CONTRIBUTIONS. JUST SO YOU
UNDERSTAND. I WILL HAVE IN MY
RAISE MORE THAN $100 MILLION
OF MY OWN MONEY, MEANING THAT
I'M NOT TAKING ALL THIS BIG
MONEY FROM ALL OF THESE
DIFFERENT CORPORATIONS, LIKE
SHE IS DOING, WHAT I ASK IS
THIS. I AM ASKING MORE AND,
AND I WILL HAVE MORE THAN $100
MILLION INVESTED. PRETTY MUCH
SELF FUNDING, WE'RE RAISING
MONEY FOR THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY. WE ARE DOING
TREMENDOUSLY ON THE SMALL
DONATIONS. $61 AVERAGE OR SO.
WHY DOESN'T SHE MAKE $250
MILLION BY BEING IN OFFICE?
SHE USED THE POWER OF HER
OFFICE TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY.
WHY ISN'T SHE FUNDING... WHY
DON'T YOU PUT $30 MILLION INTO
YOUR OWN CAMPAIGN? IT IS $30
MILLION LESS FOR SPECIAL
INTERESTS, AND WILL TELL YOU
EXACTLY WHAT TO DO. I THINK IT
WOULD BE A NICE SIGN TO THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC. YOU HAVE A
LOT OF IT, AND YOU HAVE A LOT
OF IT BECAUSE OF THE FACT THAT
YOU HAVE BEEN IN OFFICE. YOU
MADE A LOT OF IT WHILE YOU
WERE SECRETARY OF STATE. WHY
ARE YOU PUTTING IT INTO YOUR
OWN CAMPAIGN? I'M CURIOUS.
>> WE WILL GET ONTO ONE MORE
QUESTION. THE QUESTION WAS
ABOUT THE SUPREME COURT...
>> I RESPECT THE SECOND
AMENDMENT. BUT I BELIEVE THIS
SHOULD BE COMPREHENSIVE
BACKGROUND CHECKS, AND WE
SHOULD CLOSE THE GUN SHOW
LOOPHOLE, AND CLOSE THE ONLINE
DRUPAL.
>> WE HAVE ONE MORE QUESTION.
>> WITH ONE MORE QUESTION FROM
KEN BONE ABOUT ENERGY POLICY.
WE HAD A
>> WHAT STEPS WOULD YOU ENERGY
POLICY TAKE TO MEET OUR ENERGY
NEEDS WHILE AT THE SAME TIME
PERMITTING ENVIRONMENT
FRIENDLY AND MINIMIZING JOB
LOSS OF FOSSIL POWER PLANT
WORKERS?
>> I THINK THAT IS SUCH A
GREAT QUESTION BECAUSE ENERGY
IS UNDER SIEGE BY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION. THE EPA AGENCY
IS KILLING THESE ENERGY
COMPANIES. FOREIGN COMPANIES
ARE NOW COMING IN AND BUYING
OUR SO MANY DIFFERENT PLANTS
HAVE BEEN READ FIGURING THE
PLANTS SO THEY CAN TAKE CARE
OF THE OIL. WE ARE KILLING OUR
ENERGY BUSINESS IN THIS
COUNTRY. I AM ALL FOR
ALTERNATIVE FORMS OF ENERGY
INCLUDING WIND AND SOLAR. BUT
WE NEED MUCH MORE THAN THE
WIND AND SOLAR. YOU LOOK AT
OUR MINORS. HILLARY CLINTON
WILL SUBMIT ALL THE MINERS OF
THE BUSINESS. THERE IS A THING
CALLED CLEAN COAL. COAL WILL
LAST FOR A THOUSAND YEARS IN
THIS COUNTRY. NOW WE HAVE
NATURAL GAS AND SO MANY OTHER
THINGS BECAUSE OF TECHNOLOGY,
WE HAVE UNBELIEVABLE FOUND
OVER THE LAST SEVEN YEARS DOWN
THE TREMENDOUS WEALTH RIGHT
UNDER OUR FEET. SO GOOD,
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU HAVE 20
TRILLION IN DEBT. I WILL BRING
OUR ENERGY COMPANIES BACK,
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO COMPETE,
MAKE MONEY, PAY OFF OUR
NATIONAL DEBT, PAY OFF OUR
GERMAIN IS DEFICITS WHICH ARE
TREMENDOUS. -- TREMENDOUS
DEFICIT. WE ARE PUTTING OUR
ENERGY COMPANIES OUT OF
BUSINESS. WE HAVE TO BRING
BACK OUR WORKERS, TAKEN TO GET
WHAT IS HAPPENING TO STEAL AND
THE COST OF STEEL. AND CHINA
DUMPING VAST AMOUNTS OF STEEL
ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES.
WHICH IS KILLING ARE STILL
WORKERS AND STILL COMPANIES.
WE HAVE TO GUARD OUR ENERGY
COMPANIES AND MAKE IT
POSSIBLE, THE EPA IS SO
RESTRICTIVE THAT THEY ARE
PUTTING OUR ENERGY COMPANIES
OUT OF BUSINESS. ALL YOU HAVE
TO DO IS GO TO A GREAT PLACE
LIKE WEST VIRGINIA OR PLACES
LIKE OHIO WHICH IS PHENOMENAL
OR PLACES LIKE AS AND YOU WILL
SEE WHAT THEY ARE DOING. TO
THE PEOPLE, MINERS AND OTHERS
IN THE ENERGY BUSINESS. IT IS
A DISGRACE.
>> THE TIME IS UP.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON,
TWO-MINUTE.
>> THAT WAS VERY INTERESTING.
FIRST OF ALL, CHINA IS
ILLEGALLY DUMPING STILL IN THE
UNITED STATES AND DONALD TRUMP
IS BUYING BID THE BUILDERS
BUILDING. PUTTING STEELWORKERS
AND AMERICAN STEEL POINSETTIA
BUSINESS. THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT I BROUGHT AGAINST AS A
SENATOR AND THAT I WOULD HAVE
A TRADE PROSECUTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE DON'T GET TAKEN
ADVANTAGE OF BY CHINA ON STEEL
OR ANYTHING ELSE. YOU KNOW
BECAUSE IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU ARE
IN THE BUSINESS OR AWARE OF
PEOPLE IN THE BUSINESS. YOU
KNOW THAT WE HAD NOW FOR THE
FIRST TIME EVER ENERGY
INDEPENDENT. WE ARE NOT
DEPENDENT UPON THE MIDDLE
EAST, BUT THE MIDDLE EAST
STILL CONTROL A LOT OF THE
PRICES. THE PRICE OF OIL HAS
BEEN AWAY DOWN AND THAT HAS
HAD A DAMAGING EFFECT ON A LOT
OF THE OIL COMPANIES. WE ARE
HOWEVER PRODUCING A LOT OF
NATURAL GAS, WHICH SERVES AS A
BRIDGE TO MORE RENEWABLE FUELS
AND I THINK THAT IS A
IMPORTANT TRANSITION. WE HAVE
TO REMAIN ENERGY INDEPENDENT.
IT GIVES US MUCH MORE POWER
AND FREEDOM THEN TO BE WORRIED
ABOUT WHAT GOES ON IN THE
MINORITY. WE HAVE ENOUGH WORDS
OVER THERE WITHOUT HAVING TO
WORRY ABOUT THAT. WE HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE POLICY BUT IT
REALLY DOES INCLUDE FIGHTING
CLIMATE CHANGE BECAUSE I THINK
THAT IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM. AND
I SUPPORT MOVING TOWARD A MORE
CLEAN OF ENERGY AS QUICKLY AS
WE CAN. I THINK WE CAN MEET A
21ST-CENTURY CLEAN ENERGY
SUPERPOWER. AND CREATED
MILLIONS OF NEW JOBS AND
BUSINESSES. BUT I ALSO WANT TO
BE SURE THAT WOULD ONLY PEOPLE
BEHIND. THAT IS WHY I'M THE
ONLY CANDIDATE FROM THE VERY
BEGINNING OF THIS CAMPAIGN WHO
A PLAN TO HELP US REVITALIZE
COAL COUNTRY. BECAUSE THOSE
COAL MINERS AND THEIR FATHERS
AND GRANDFATHERS, THEY GOT
THAT CALL OUT, A LOT OF THEM
LOST THEIR LIVES, INJURED, BUT
THEY TURNED THE LIGHTS ON AND
POWERED OUR FACTORY. I DON'T
WANT TO WALK AWAY FROM THEM SO
WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING FOR
THEM. BUT THE PRICE OF COAL IS
DOWN WORLDWIDE. WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT THIS COMPREHENSIVELY
AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT I
HAVE PROPOSED. I HOPE YOU'LL
GO THROUGH HILLARY CLINTON
.COM AND LOOK AT MY ENTIRE
POLICY.
>> ONE MORE IDEAS QUESTION.
>> IT COMES FROM CARL BECKER.
>> -- ONE MORE IDEAS QUESTION.
GOOD EVENING. BY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE YOU IS, REGARDLESS
OF THE CURRENT FREDERICK, BUT
EITHER YOU NAME ONE POSITIVE
THING THAT YOU RESPECT IN ONE
ANOTHER? LAUGHTER APPLAUSE
>> MR CHUMP WOULD YOU LIKE TO
GO FIRST?
>> -- MR TRUMP.
>> I CERTAINLY WILL. I THINK
THAT IS A VERY FAIR AND
IMPORTANT QUESTION. I RESPECT
HIS CHILDREN. HIS CHILDREN ARE
INCREDIBLY ABLE AND DEVOTED
NOTHING THAT SAYS A LOT ABOUT
DONALD. I DON'T AGREE WITH
NEARLY ANYTHING ELSE HE SAYS
OR DOES, BUT I DO RESPECT
THAT. I THINK THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT AS A MOTHER AND
A GRANDMOTHER IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO ME. I BELIEVE
THIS ELECTION HAS BECOME THE
PARCELLS -- IMPART SO INTENSE
AND CONFLICT ORIENTED, THERE
IS A LOT AT STAKE. THIS IS NOT
AN ORDINARY TIME AND NOT AN
ORDINARY ELECTION. WE ARE
GOING TO BE CHOOSING A
PRESIDENT WHO WILL SET POLICY
NOT JUST FOR EIGHT YEARS, BUT
BECAUSE OF SOME OF THE
IMPORTANT DECISIONS WE HAVE TO
MAKE HERE AT HOME AND AROUND
THE WORD FOR THE SUPREME
COURT TO ENERGY AND SO MUCH
ELSE. SO THERE IS A LOT AT
STAKE. ONE OF THE MOST
CONSEQUENTIAL ELECTIONS THAT
WE HAVE HAD. THAT IS WHY I
HAVE TRIED TO PUT FORTH THE
SPECIFIC POLICIES AND PLANS,
TRYING TO GET OFF OF A
PERSONAL AND PUT IT ON TO WHAT
IS I WANT TO DO AS PRESIDENT.
THAT IS WHY I HOPE PEOPLE WILL
CHECK ON THAT FOR THEMSELVES.
SO THEY CONCEDE THAT YES I
HAVE SPENT 30 YEARS, MAYBE
MORE, WORKING TO HELP KIDS AND
FAMILIES AND TAKE ALL THAT
EXPERIENCE TO THE WHITE HOUSE
AND TO THAT EVER SINGLE DAY.
>> MR TRUMP.
>> I CONSIDER HER STATEMENT
ABOUT MY CHILDREN TO BE A VERY
NICE COMPLEMENT. I DON'T KNOW
IF IT WAS MEANT TO BE
EXCELLENT, BUT IT IS GREAT. I
AM PROUD OF MY CHILDREN. THEY
HAVE DONE A WONDERFUL JOB AND
BEEN WONDERFUL KIDS. I
CONSIDER THAT A COMPLIMENT. I
WILL SAY THIS ABOUT HILLARY.
SHE DOESN'T QUIT. SHE DOES NOT
GIVE UP. I RESPECT THAT. I
TELL IT LIKE IT IS. SHE IS A
FIGHTER. I DISAGREE WITH MUCH
OF WHAT SHE IS FIGHTING FOR. I
DO DISAGREE WITH HER JUDGMENT
IN MANY CASES. BUT SHE DOES
FIGHT HARD AS SHE DOESN'T QUIT
AS SHE DOESN'T CARE ABOUT. I
CONSIDER THAT TO BE A VERY
GOOD TRAIT.
>> THANK YOU TO BOTHER YOU.
APPLAUSE
>> I WANT TO THANK BOTH OF THE
CANDIDATES AND THE UNIVERSITY
HERE, THIS CONCLUDES THE TOWN
HALL MEETING. THANKS TO THE TO
THE CANDIDATES, WASHINGTON AND
EVERYBODY THAT WALKED. PUT
ANOTHER OCTOBER 19 FOR THE
FINAL PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE THAT
WILL TAKE PLACE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA, LAS
VEGAS, DENIED EVERYBODY. -- A
GOOD NIGHT EVERYBODY. APPLAUSE
>> ALL THE PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
BUT SOME OF THE LIQUID TO THE
NIGHT WAS HARDLY PRESIDENTIAL.
KICKING OFF TONIGHT, TALKING
ABOUT LOCKER ROOM TALK. THE
TWO CANDIDATES BEGIN THIS
DEBATE NOT EITHER SECOND-HAND.
I THINK IF I SOUGHT CORRECTLY,
THAT THERE SHAKE HANDS AT THE
END IT THERE.
>> KNOW THEY DID NOT. THERE
ARE CLEAR FROM THE BEGINNING
MIDDLE AND ONE OF THEM REACHED
THE OTHER'S HAND. WE LEARNED
LAST WEEK THAT THE MOST
TALENTED AS TO HOW CANNABIS
APPROACHES OTHER THAN THE
FIRST PART.
>> FITTED TO SHAKE HANDS AT
THE END. THIS DEBATE BY NOT
CHECKING CAN.
>> AND STARTED TO WHAT THEY
VERY QUESTION, DO YOU THINK
YOU ARE MODERATELY APPROPRIATE
BEHAVIOR FOR THE PRESIDENCY.
WE KEPT HEARING ALL DAY THAT
DONALD TRUMP WHAT A AND
EMBARRASSED AM GOING TO BE
CONTRITE AND WHAT HE WAS ASKED
ABOUT HIS VOCAL REMARKS HE
SAYS, THAT IS LOCKER ROOM
TALK. I THINK MANY PEOPLE ARE
ASKING WHICH LOCKER ROOM. MANY
MEN I TALKED ABOUT THIS SAYS
MAN MAY HAVE TALKED ABOUT
WOMAN BUT DON'T TALK ABOUT
WOMEN LIKE THAT.
>> YOU HAVE A WATCHING THIS
DEBATE, DON. WE DIDN'T THINK?
>> WHAT THEY DON'T TALK ABOUT
IS A LITTLE TERMS ABOUT
SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A WOMAN.
THAT IS THE DIFFERENT LINE
HERE. THAT IS WHAT IS NOT AN
AVID LOCKER ROOM. THE
CHALLENGE FOR DONALD TRUMP WAS
TO BUILD ON THIS PAGE. THEN I
WORRIED ABOUT THIS VIDEO. THAT
SHOULD BUILD ON HIS FACE. THE
CHALLENGE WAS TO REACH OUT OF
THOSE RELUCTANT REPUBLICANS TO
KEEP THE FLAME OF REPUBLICAN
OFFICIALS WHO HAVE BEEN LIVING
BY THE BUS-LOADS ANDY LAST
TODAY SYSTEMS VIDEO CAME OUT
FIBER IS THEM SOMEHOW OR THEY
TELL TASK. TALK WAS HE GOING
TO BE CONTRITE ARTCLE OFF
APOLOGIES. WAS HE GOING TO FIT
WITHIN THE CONSTRAINTS OF THE
DEBATE. HE DECIDED TO FORGET
ABOUT ALL THAT. IT WAS GOING
TO SOLVE IS THAT THE 100%
DONALD TRUMP. GOING TO
COUNTERPUNCH ARE. HE WAS GOING
TO BE OF THE POLITICIANS WHO
MADE A MESS OF THIS COUNTRY
AND TALK RIGHT TO HIS BASE AND
GOING TO BEAT UP ON
MODERATORS. GOING TO GIVE
HILLARY CLINTON NO... GOING TO
BRING UP BILL CLINTON'S PAST
AND INDISCRETIONS. IT
BSICALLY HE WAS GOING TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT MADE HIS FAN
BASE. SO WHAT. THAT IS HIS
POLITICAL CHALLENGE TO EXPAND
BEYOND HIS BASE AND THE
REPUBLICANS THAT APPOINTED HIM
I WORRIED ABOUT THE VOTERS HE
IS TURNING OFF. THEY STILL
HAVE THAT WORRY AND HE STILL
HAS THAT CHALLENGE.
>> ISN'T THAT WHY THE PEOPLE
WHO SUPPORT HIM LIKE AN? I WAS
IN OHIO TALKING TO DONALD
TRUMP SUPPORTERS AND THEY ALL
SAID TO ME, WE KNOW WHO HE IS
AND WHO HE IS AND WHAT HE
REPRESENTS.
>> BUT HE WON THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINEE IN THE SENATE GENERAL
ELECTION. HE HAS BEEN ON A
COURSE OF TRYING TO BUILD AND
BRING IN THOSE RELUCTANT
REPUBLICANS AND
COLLEGE-EDUCATED WOMEN. SOME
MEN WHO HAVE DAUGHTERS WHO
DON'T LIKE TO HEAR THIS KIND
OF STUFF AND NOT ADMIT THIS IS
LOCKER ROOM TALK. THOSE ARE
THE VOTERS WHO ARE NERVOUS
ABOUT DONALD TRUMP. NOTHING
THAT YOU GET DONE TONIGHT THAT
IS ANY DIFFERENT THAN THE
DONALD TRUMP THAT HAS BEEN OUT
THERE WINNING PRAISE FROM HIS
BODY.